rated on a 4-star scale screening venue : odoen ( liverpool city centre ) released in the uk by uip on april 7 , 2000 ; certificate 15 ; 126 minutes ; country of origin usa ; aspect ratio 1 . 85 : 1 directed by stephen soderbergh ; produced by danny devito , michael shamberg , stacey sher . written by susannah grant . photographed by ed lachmann ; edited by anne v . coates . it's astounding , how many of us turn into lawyers when we get wrapped up in cases . i remember the louise woodward affair , for example , when i knew all the evidence from the courtroom pictures on tv , and was able to reel off detailed arguments crushing people who had just looked at her and assumed she was guilty . passion about justice is what makes people consider law careers ; it chills me when i see sell-outs trying to condemn obviously innocent people , or using dishonest tactics to help the guilty . stephen soderbergh's " erin brockovich " is a brilliant story of anger turning into courtroom skills ; a david versus goliath-style exposé in the great tradition of " silkwood " , " a civil action " and " the insider " . at its centre is a woman with no judiciary training or expertise , whose mind was not complicated with red tape or histories of statutes , and whose discoveries and simple logical interpretations helped small-time lawyers win one of the biggest lawsuits in american history . her name , of course , is erin brockovich ( julia roberts ) , and when we meet her in the opening scenes of this film , she's just a struggling single mother who has failed to win a personal injury settlement . soon after , she hustles her way into a filing job at the firm of her solicitor . the boss , ed masry ( albert finney ) , objects , but erin makes her services hard to refuse : " i need a job . don't make me beg . if it doesn't work out , fire me . " when handling the real estate documents of a town in california , erin notices something odd -- they all include medical records . researching this further , she stumbles on the information that the area's water supplier , pacific gas & electric , has been using a dangerous chemical known as 'hexavalent chromium 3' in their pipes . 'chromium 3' can penetrate the body to cause pretty much any illness , including all forms of cancer . what's especially horrific is that pg&e knew about the hazards of their water and misinformed its customers that chromium was good for them . the people took the company's word , even when they all started to get sick , until erin brockovich revealed her findings , and used her common touch to encourage the folks to stand up and take legal action . brockovich is not always a likeable character . at the start of the movie , when no job interviewers will look past her lack of a resumé or qualifications , her feeling of victimisation is preposterous . she seems to think anyone who isn't stuck in the poverty trap must be some sort of snob . and she displays gross arrogance when defending her wardrobe , which is made up of mini-skirts , tight boob tubes and high-heeled boots . " as long as i have one ass instead of two , " she tells masry when he points out that his office has a dress code , " i'll wear what i god damn well please . " but none of these flaws take away from her achievement , which is that she worked hard , taught herself some tough skills , became a great friend and advocate for victims of an abominable crime , and managed to raise a family at the same time . this is one of roberts's most impressive performances , her best since " pretty woman " ( 1990 ) , because she really does look affected by the pressures her character has to cope with . she allows herself to be vulnerable , with a voice that can quiver and stumble . she doesn't always have the answers , and could break down at any minute . there are one or two irritating episodes of grandstanding , where she rattles off snappy , heroic speeches that probably took the screenwriter hours to write ; but that's kind of obligatory , and i'm just glad that such moments don't dominate the film . " erin brockovich " is not necessarily better than the films i previously mentioned , but has advantages over each of them in one way or another . it's more fast-paced and accessible than " silkwood " , angrier about its subject matter than " a civil action " and less sidetracked than " the insider " . i'm starting to love director soderbergh's new visual style , too , which he also used in " out of sight " , and mixes the colour palette and star power of big studio movies with the documentary camera and quiet pacing of realistic independents . sounds distracting . but it's oddly compelling . copyright ( c ) 2000 ian waldron-mantgani please visit , and encourage others to visit , the uk critic's website , which is located at http : //members . aol . com/ukcritic 
a miramax pictures release . starring robin williams , matt damon , ben affleck , stellan skarsgard , minnie driver , casey affleck , cole hauser , george plimpton . script by ben affleck and matt damon . produced by lawrence bender . directed by gus van sant . running time : 125 mins . rated r . " good will hunting " is two movies in one : an independent take on the struggle of four boston pals and a traditional hollywood , " prodigy child " film complete with upbeats , downfalls , sporadically moving situations and plenty , plenty of shtick . unusually directed by gus van sant , " good will hunting " overcomes the banalities of its story by affirming the emergence of fresh , new talent . the film stars matt damon as will hunting as a mathematical , rebellious whiz kid inadvertly discovered by a college professor ( stellan skarsgard ) , who places him under psychological supervision with robin williams . in a nutshell , that's it . the core of the " good will hunting " is damon , who infuses the script ( co- written by " chasing amy's " ben affleck ) with just the right amount of warmth , sensitivity and humanity to accentuate his position as a refreshing multi- talented performer . but it's the acting that hits the mark , and damon hits all the right notes , flying over robin williams' deja-vu role ( " awakenings " was written all over this ) as a devastated shrink who has closed all contact with society due to his wife's tragic death . damon effortlessly blends the carelesness of a gregarious , confused thug with the absorbing ingeniousness of someone like einstein . his rich , complex character is the pulp of " good will hunting . " everything else pales in comparison . " good will hunting " exposes the lack of profoundness of deliberately schmaltzy storytelling , but , unlike " little man tate " or " phenomenon " , it doesn't set up its story in a black and white , point a to point b be manner , but as the saga of an extraordinary individual whose feasibility for success doesn't automatically signify he must make easy , familiar choices , like the protagonists in the aforementioned . 
from the man who presented us with henry : the portrait of a serial killer ( 6 . 5/10 ) comes a wild tale set within the elite and white trash of florida's south coast . plot : guidance counselor ( dillon ) is accused of raping one of his students . she happens to be the daughter of one of the wealthiest women in florida . the counselor is brought to court on the charges , as another white trash girl ( campbell ) , also joins the rape finger-pointing club . as the story unfolds , we find that many things aren't exactly as they seem ( that's as much as i could say without ruining anything ) . critique : good little flick that slows down at certain points , and runs a tad long , but generates enough twists and turns to keep most people interested throughout . mind you , i could see many people not liking it because it takes " one too many " twists and turns , but hey , i happen to like that kind of thing . and besides , the twists and turns in this movie managed to remain within the realm of believability ( or scathingly close to ) , and even " explained " many of its turns with a showcase of missed scenes during the credit crawl at the end of the film ( do not leave the theatre before you see the credits . . . it really does clear up some stuff ! ! ) . other than that , the acting was good , with campbell transforming her " good girl stereotypical " role into a pot-smoking , goth-looking white trash chick out for a good time . denise richards ( from starship troopers ( 7/10 ) fame ) solidifies herself as hollywood's jelly-donut pinup girl of the moment , and proves that all breast implants needn't lead to lawsuits . bacon is solid , and so is dillon ( while continuing to prove his inability to age to the whole wide wondering world ! ! ) . sprinkle the story with a bunch o' shots of alligators peeking through the swamp waters , bacon showing the world the size of his ding-dong ( do we really need to see this ? ? ) , a couple of lesbian kissing scenes , and a menage-a-trois , and you've got yourself a decent time at the movie theatre . on the down side , the soundtrack was not as prominent ( or slick ) as i thought it would be , and theresa russell ( real name : theresa paup ) seems to have lost her way in every which way possible . . . . ooooh , i almost forgot bill murray's exquisite role as the down-trodden lawyer who agrees to defend dillon in court . murray actually added that extra little spice of humour that allowed this film to affirm its position as a quirky little noirish tale of sex , greed and mystery . little known facts : neve campbell specified a non-nudity clause in her contract ( she's also born in guelph , ontario . . . go hoser ! ) director john mcnaughton says he deleted a scene that would have shown matt dillon and kevin bacon showering together , as it was gratuitous . kevin bacon plays in a band with his brother , called the bacon brothers , is married to actress kyra sedgwick , and has a game based on him called " six degrees of kevin bacon " . 
okay , let me first say , this is a beavis and butthead movie . if you do not like beavis and butthead , do not go to see this movie ! ! ! ! ! however , if you do like them , i recommened you get out right now and go see it . the movie starts off with the boys wondering what happened to their tv . they notice that it has been stolen and they vow to find it . this wind their way through america searching for dallas ( she is a woman ) . they look for her because as they are searching for the tv , they find a drunk who wants them " to do " his wife . well , of course they think he wants them to score with her when actually he wants them to kill her . and the fun starts their . this movie is a mix of funny gags that anly beavis and butthead could pull off . it is quality entertainment that only fan of beavis and butthead would enjoy . i enjoyed this movie alot because mike judge knew how to keep pace . even when they were crawling through the desert and i thought the movie started to lag , he manages to keep the laughs coming . if you expecting changes from the show keep looking . the same character , the same voices , the same everything from the show and that's what makes it good . you might think with a movie from a tv show , you can change a few things . often times this spells disaster for films because the film makers veer away from what made the show popular in the first place ! 
the relaxed dude rides a roller coasterthe most surreal situations are ordinary everyday life as viewed by an outsider . when those observers are joel and ethan coen , the surreal becomes bizarre . when the life is that of jeff " the dude " leboswki , the bizarre falls over the edge into the world of " what'sgoingonaroundhere " . the marvelous sound of " the stranger " ( sam elliot ) 's voice-over introduces the film . at least it does until he forgets what he was going to say and gives up . the dude ( jeff bridges ) is described as the " laziest man in los angeles , possibly the world " , although he's not so much slothful as he is relaxed . spending the last 30 years with a roach clip in one hand and a white russian in the other , he doesn't have much of a life , but he's having a good time . when asked what he does for fun , he responds " bowl , drive around and the occasional acid flashback " . lebowski's passion is bowling . when he's not rolling the ball down an alley towards a strike , things just happen to him . arriving home one night , he's beaten by thugs attempting to collect money that his wife owes them . even worse , they urinate on his rug . the problem is that the dude doesn't have a wife . his assailants realize that their target is a different lebowski when they glance around at his apartment . the " big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) is a multi-millionaire and his dudeness lives in two-room squalor . the next day , our ragtag hero visits his namesake's mansion attempting compensation for his soaked rug . the carpet is important to him because it pulls the room together : not surprisingly since it's virtually the only object there . when he's denied any money , he picks up a replacement rug off the floor . on his way out , he runs into lebowski's trophy babe wife bunny ( tara reid ) who offers to perform a sexual act that , according to rumor , is one of bill clinton's favorites for a thousand bucks . the penniless dude wisecracks that he's heading for the cash machine . later he gets an unexpected phone call enlisting his aid in being the bag man to deliver a ransom to bunny's kidnappers . this begins the trademarked coen brothers crimes-gone-wrong sequences . the kidnappers are impossibly inept . the dude and his cronies are even worse . every plan goes awry . you can almost see lebowski's brain churning in slow motion as he tries to figure out the clues . that's the story , but to tell the truth it doesn't much matter . there could be almost any plot and the film would be just as entertaining . the narrative only exists so we can watch the offbeat characters and the quirky predicaments they fall into . the dude's bowling buddies walter ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) look like people you'd see on the street but , like everything else in this film , they're not quite what they seem . walter is a vet as stuck in vietnam as the dude is in the sixties . everything that happens reminds him of a situation in the nam . when a fellow bowler crosses the foul line but won't admit it , walter pulls a gun on him until he marks a zero on the score sheet . donny gets precious few words in between walter's screaming and the dude's rambling . when he does , walter shouts him down with horrendous albeit seemingly unintentional bowling puns . donny is " out of his league " and doesn't " have a frame of reference " . the film is peppered with people for whom the term " character " would be an understatement . the big lebowski's daughter maude , an avant-garde " vaginal " artist , paints while swinging naked in a leather apparatus like an s&m mary martin . the kidnappers are german techno nihilist bikers . bunny lebowski is a high school cheerleader turned porno star . most impressive is john turturro in his far too small role as a hispanic bowler . as the flamenco music swells , we see him putting on his lavender hose . the camera pans up to an all-purple skin-tight bowling outfit with " jesus " ( pronounced with a " j " , not an " h " ) embroidered on the pocket . he addresses the lane with intense seriousness and one painted fingernail . his tongue slowly snakes out and lovingly licks the glowing bowling ball . bridges works the dude as if he had been living him for decades and maybe he has . i can't think of anyone else who could have done a better job . buscemi has a limited role , but he plays it perfectly . the more that i see john goodman the more convinced i am that he's one of the treasures of our time . it's odd to think that most of the world knows him only as roseanne barr's television husband . more like the coen's " raising arizona " than their hit " fargo " , " the big lebowski " demands an open mind and even more open eyes . a mark of the coen brothers is that even with all wonderful dream sequences and the broad slapstick physical comedy on the screen , much of the humor is subtle and easy to miss . there's so much going on that frequently it disappears before you can see it . walking out of the theater , i felt that the film had something important to say . on further examination , i wasn't sure exactly what it was . " if you meet jesus at the bowling alley , it's not going to be what you expect " ? " when the going gets weird , the weird go bowling " ? maybe there's no real message . perhaps it's just a roller coaster ride through a hilarious world . maybe that's enough . ( michael redman has written this column for 23 years and just realized that he was so taken with the dude that he ran out of space to talk about " the man in the iron mask " starring that favorite of 14-year-old girls of all ages . redman@bvoice . com is the eaddress for estuff . ) [this appeared in the 3/19/98 " bloomington voice " , bloomington , indiana . michael redman can be contacted at redman@bvoice . com] -- mailto : redman@bvoice . com this week's film review at http : //www . bvoice . com/ film reviews archive at http : //us . imdb . com/m/reviews_by ? michael%20redman 
capsule : perversely entertaining hong kong action with the god of gamblers himself , chow yun-fat . mira sorvino ain't bad either , but the main attraction is the movie's glossy look . chow yun-fat commands the screen the way very few actors do , no matter where they're from . see him in the dozens of other movies he's done for the hong kong studios ( and hang yourself if you haven't seen him in john woo's masterpieces the killer and hard-boiled ) . he is one of the few cult-movie figures who lives up to and beyond the hype . in the replacement killers , he strides onscreen as if just coming in from another hk production without losing a beat . hk fan that i am , i held my breath in anticipation of this movie for quite some time . the replacement killers was designed to be chow's big u . s . debut vehicle , but it also serves as the debut for director antoine fuqua ( whose only previous directorial job was the " gangster's paradise " video for coolio ) . both director and actor have veteran confidence in this movie , which helps to buoy it all up out of the routine and into the realm of the special . the plot is not the main attraction . chow plays a hitman who crumbles when faced with the prospect of having to ice a policeman , and decides to flee the country . to that end , he enlists mira sorvino's character -- a tattooed forgery artist who lives in an apartment that looks like a close cousin to the one j . f . sebastian inhabited in blade runner . then bad guys with tons of firepower come gunning for both of them , and they have to hit the road . fuqua knows his hk action staples . the movie is saturated with highly choreographed violence . the whole movie glows and glitters : shattering glass , guns blazing , false-color shots from * inside * a gun as a round is chambered . sparks shoot as high-tension lines give when bodies fall on them . metal crumples as cars slam into each other , reflecting the moody green-and-yellow lighting in an underground parking garage . sunglasses glint . put simply , if you don't like movies where these things all figure in abundance , stay home . if you do , buy three copies . you'll wear them all out soon enough . chow and sorvino's characters do not like each other very much -- it's hard to like someone who seems to be responsible for getting your place torched -- but they form a mutual respect which is credible on-screen , and work together to get themselves out of trouble . there's also a good supporting role by michael rooker ( remember him from henry : portrait of a serial killer ? ) as a cop who tries to put everything together from the outside , and yet another wonderfully stolid bad-guy role courtesy of jurgen prochnow . the replacement killers is all surface , but it's a wonderful surface to look at . good show all around . now let's see chow -- and fuqua -- in something a little more substantial . i * know * chow can handle it . 
if there has been a better comedy of errors this year than i'd reccomend it be shown with this delightful french import from the director of la cage aux folles . it could be a laugh all day film festival , because that's exactly what this movie is . what seems like the french " bean " turns out to be an even more hilarious romp . this movie will have you laughing for days after , and i'm glad i'm able to share this review with you . a man is on a train with francois pignon ( villeret ) when he begins to pull out pictures of different things he has built out of matches . guess how many matches it took ? he asks , 364 , 422 ! pierre is charmed , because he's found an idiot for his friend pierre brochant ( lhermitte . ) every wednesday they invite an idiot to have dinner in order to make fun of him all evening . tonight it's his turn , and before now , he was idiotless . plus , this guy is in a class of his own . pierre cracks his back while playing golf , the doctor tells him not to go to the dinner for his better health but since his idiot is the cream of the crop he attempts to go anyway . then his wife christine ( alexandra vandernoot ) decides to leave him for his cruelty for others . he thinks he's gone to the man he stole her from , then decides she's at a local love club . but in order get the phone number there they have to call a tax auditor . the idiot worsens pierre's back problems and screws up any of his chances of getting back together with his wife . a complex plot is soon laid out in the household . another film from veber that is full to the brim with original comic ideas . name one comedy that takes happens in one place , in a foreign language , and that is incredibly funny . one of the best parts about the dinner game ( besides that cool looking animation that showcases the titles and credits for the film ) is the fact that while it's called the dinner game , there is no dinner or no game at all . the film's comedy owes almost everything to villeret , he's someone you can just look at and laugh . when the film is remade in the us ( with robin williams as the idiot ) it will probably lose all of the charm and the wit that is featured here . the supporting cast is good , but it's obvious who's in the center of attention . so , go see the dinner game while you can , this funny , original , and interesting french comedy gets  stars . 
capsule : jackie chan teams up with his old buddy sammo hung to give us another zero-calorie fight-fest . gloriously foolish fun . my wife had this to say about mr . nice guy : " as entertainment , it's great . as a movie , it sucks . " i was forced to agree : the plot was an afterthought , the acting was hopeless , the script a throwaway . but it showcased jackie chan's raucous physical comedy -- " martial arts " is the wrong word for it -- and was therefore more than worth it . it isn't the all-out roar of joy that rumble in the bronx and especially supercop were , but it's still great fun . most movies that feature martial-arts action are about the giving and receiving of violent pain . jackie has a slightly goofier agenda , and is all the better for it -- even if he's in a paper-thin story . the plot ( what a word ! ) : jackie is a tv chef living in australia who specializes in on-screen acrobatics with his food . one day he collides with a journalist who's just filmed a drug deal that ended in violence , and there's a mix-up of tapes . this of course puts him right in the path of an endless stream of punks , henchmen , cigar-smoking baddies , and cops . that's about it-- but ther are a host of tiny little departures , like his girlfriend ( miki lee ) and his female assistant , who have a howlingly funny scene that , due to language barriers , cannot be repeated here . some things you gotta see to believe . jackie's stuntwork needs a new vocabulary to describe it : it's like play , or maybe a kind of dance . one scene has jackie getting into a fight in traffic -- on top of a flood of pepsi cans . another scene involves an unfinished building and a whole maze of doors opening into empty rooms and corridors . hung ( who directed ) plays it like an homage to the road runner and wile e . coyote cartoons . ( hung also films things a little more loosely and fluidly than staney tong did : we get a lot of steadicam work , lots of things going on in different sectors of the screen . ) another , even more mind-boggling scene , involves jackie being forced to fight with henchmen holding his limbs back with bungee cords . ( yes , he manages to get the upper hand with that one as well . don't ask how . ) the final scene gives us the grand guignol ( sans blood ) ending that a movie like this deserves . here's a hint : in the first five minutes , we see a giant earth-moving vehicle used to bury someone . seeing a thing like that in a movie like this is ( to quote roger ebert ) like camille coughing in the first reel and not dying in the last : it * has * to make an encore . i was right . only this time , jackie was driving . 
cast : dennis quaid , james caviezel , shawn doyle , elizabeth mitchell , andre braugher , noah emmerich written by : toby emmerich directed by : gregory hoblit running time : 117 minutes when you go to the movies as much as i do , you unfortunately end up seeing certain movie trailers one too many times . such was the case with frequency . every time i went to a screening , there was the frequency preview . it looked awful . it looked cheesy , sappy and ridiculous . it looked like a flop . well , whoever put that trailer together should be fired , because in terms of pure entertainment , frequency is one of the best of the year thus far . frequency boasts a compelling story line . an occurrence of freakish solar activity allows police detective john sullivan ( james caviezel ) to speak to his fireman father frank sullivan ( dennis quaid ) through a ham radio , despite the fact that frank has been dead for 30 years . john is able to give his father information that prevents his death in a warehouse fire , but by doing so causes other changes . somehow , a serial killer's reign of terror , which in the original timeline had been stopped at three murders , extends to ten victims . . . including john's mother . this is director gregory hoblit's third film ( the other two being primal fear and fallen ) . with all three , he's managed to attach himself to great scripts ( this one by toby emmerich , whose only previous movie experience was as a music supervisor on numerous new line films ) and add equally great direction . also , he apparently likes to have his films wrap up with a kick-ass ending . frequency is no exception , the ending is unpredictable and incredibly satisfying . hoblit is three for three , and i hope he can keep it up . now everyone can argue logic this and logic that all you want with the sci-fi elements of frequency . but the fact of the matter is that time travel has never been achieved . who's to say how something works and how it doesn't when it's never happened ? is it because we've become accustomed to time travel " laws " from other places like " star trek " and the back to the future trilogy and " quantum leap " ? yes , if you sit down and think about it , certain plot elements in this film probably won't make any sense . most films are like that . don't let that dissuade you from seeing this fantastically entertaining film however . when frequency was over , it made me wish i had seen it with my father so i could have given him a hug ( okay okay , shut up ) . when you break it down past all its sci-fi elements and serial killer antics , frequency is simply a movie about a father and his son and the bond that they share . it's touching , it's sincere , and it's what ultimately makes this movie work . [pg-13] reviewed by chuck dowling - chuckd21@fdn . com aol instant messenger : filmjax the jacksonville film journal - http : //www . jaxfilmjournal . com/ 
starring kirk douglas , william bendix , lee grantkirk douglas is one of those rare american actors who can say more with a simple glance than most can say with pages of dialogue . all he has to do is look at someone with a raised eyebrow , and you instantly know what he's thinking . " detective story " features one of kirk douglas's finest performances . he stars as a new york detective that has his whole world fall apart in one night . the film is based on a play , and this is quite evident , as most of the movie takes place in the one-room flat that the detective's work in . the film opens with the douglas character getting ready to go home to his wife , but through a series of events , he never quite makes it there . the bulk of the movie follows the case of a man named schneider , a surgeon who routinely performs abortions with a high fatality rate . however , this schneider character has a connection in the past of douglas's wife ; a connection douglas himself is not aware of . many secrets are revealed in the last half hour of this film . secrets i would not dream of giving away . with a name like " detective story " , one would assume the film would resemble an episode of " nypd blue " , but it doesn't quite work out that way . however , we do see douglas at work on a few other cases throughout the running time . lee grant ( virtually unrecognizable ) plays a meek jewish woman arrested for shoplifting . her scenes with bendix , another detective , provide the movie with a few laughs . the performances all around are fantastic . douglas may be the leader of this ensemble , but he's not the center of attention all the time . we get to catch a glimpse into other cases and other detectives working on those cases . which brings me back to douglas . he has a really emotional scene towards the end of the picture that really makes you feel for him . we can see that this is a man who has spent his whole life trying to eliminate crime , but has finally realized that what he's really done is gotten back at his criminal father . how he handles coming to terms with this is something really worth seeing . kirk douglas is the kind of actor we don't seem to see to much of these days : he's a tough guy , but the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath that gruff exterior . 
" a dream of dark and troubling things . " -- david lynchthere are those who say " eraserhead " makes little sense , and then there are those who say that " eraserhead " isn't supposed to make sense . i'm with the second camp : if " eraserhead " made any sense at all , it wouldn't be nearly as interesting . " eraserhead " is allegedly a horror movie , but i put it instead on that small shelf of films that abandon all pretense at being entertainment and just give you an experience : " begotten " , " the reflecting skin " and alejandro jodorowsky's head-trips ( " el topo " , " the magic mountain " ) are close cousins in spirit to this film . there is a story , sort of . henry spencer ( lynch regular john nance ) is a nerdish , creepy-looking man living in a squalid little apartment . he's accidentally impregnated his girlfriend , and the baby turns out to be a vile little creature that looks something like e . t . after thalidomide . the news about the pregnancy , by the way , comes out during a dinner where the main course consists of chickens the size of one's fist that still move and spurt blood when sliced into . there's also a strangely deformed woman who seems to live in henry's radiator . . . and by this point you're either shaking your head in dismay or wondering where to find the movie . i guess that means i've done my job . " eraserhead " needs to be seen on the big screen to work properly . on tv , the black-on-black photography -- this is the single darkest movie ever made , and i don't just mean in terms of subject matter ! -- reproduces very poorly . also , on tv , the black and white images don't saturate the senses the way they do in a theater . there's also the most creative use of sound in almost any movie i've ever seen : not a single scene in the film is silent . there's always something rumbling , hissing , clattering , bubbling , booming away in either the background or the next room over , and it has the same effect on the audience's nerves as a dentist's drill . before david lynch started screwing with america's mind via " blue velvet " and " twin peaks " , he spent five years , on and off , making " eraserhead " . it shows . there is a level of obsessive care in every frame of this film that many movies costing hundreds of times more don't show at all . people may wonder : if this thing's so weird and so repulsive , why did i give it three and a half stars ? because it dares to be different and succeeds . i don't automatically reward every movie that's " experimental " with a positive review , but they sure deserve the benefit of the doubt . -----------== posted via deja news , the discussion network ==---------- http : //www . dejanews . com/ search , read , discuss , or start your own 
for more reviews and movie trailers , visit http : //www . joblo . com/plot : a big-time momma's boy can't seem to leave his mother's crib and make good on the babies that he himself has produced in the world . he visits his kids ( and their mommas ) every now and then , but his main goal in life is . . . well , he doesn't have any goals . then one day , his mother gets an ex-gangsta boyfriend and suddenly he isn't as welcome anymore in his own house . it isn't long after that , that his girlfriends start realizing what a jerk he really is and well . . . it's either time to grow up or bow down ! critique : first things first ! this movie ain't about the " hood " at all , it's an intelligent film about love , relationships , family , friendship , maturity and growing up . do not avoid this film because you think it's about gangbangers and stuff , because it isn't at all . it's about you , it's about me , it's about your girlfriend , your mother , your problems and your inability to face up to your responsibilities and to , well . . . grow up ! this is an extremely well-written film , with some of the most developed characters that i've seen on the screen all year , with superb acting performances to match . granted , the film does start a little slow ( and go a little long ) , but hang in there , because once you appreciate and get to know all of its characters , you will be glad that you did . this isn't a kid's movie . this is about the step that you need to take in order to pass into full " adulthood " and some might not appreciate the grander theme behind that step . i certainly did , because i too passed , and am passing , through many of these very same things right now ( yeah , yeah , i still live with my momma ! ! ) and related to a lot of the events that went down in this flick ( oh yeah , and for the record , i'm not black but that made absolutely zero difference in this case ) . but that's not even half the story . you see , the film is damn funny , too . . . and i mean , damn funny ! i was crackin' up at almost every other scene , and they weren't " set-up jokes " like your typical comedies either , just day-to-day things that we could all relate to ( like the scene in which ving rhames is " drinking koolaid " in the kitchen and his infamously improvised " african squat f * * k " scene , which you just gotta see to believe ! ) and there are the performances , too . ving rhames , now here's a man who has already established an early lead in the race for best supporting actor at the end of this year . damn dude , you scared the shit outta me ! tyrese gibson , i have no idea where this guy came from ( an r&b singer and mtv vj , you say . . . hmmmm ? ) , but other than his uncanny resemblance to taye diggs , he nailed this part to the tee . from scene one on , i was glued to his performance and sympathized with his character as he molded and shaped himself into the person that he hoped to become one day . and everyone else , too . gibson's girlfriend in the film , taraji henson , made me a backer with her many subtle touches , all of which helped raise her character several levels above the " typical " bitchie girlfriend that we've seen in many of these relationship movies . but that's the thing that i liked the most about this movie . everyone seemed real , the situations felt authentic , the characters all came across as people like you and me with issues and struggles and hopes and fears . i liked this movie a lot because it was masterfully written , wonderfully acted and genuinely entertaining to watch . and yeah , i even liked the whole homage to boyz 'n the hood that singleton pulled off in the end ( he called this movie a " companion piece " to that film ) . a very solid follow-up to an ever greater original , baby boy is a film to be seen by anyone who feels like they never wanna grow up . note : the guy who plays jody's best friend in this movie is omar gooding , cuba gooding jr . 's younger brother ( cuba starred in 1991's boyz 'n the hood ) . where's joblo coming from ? the best man ( 8/10 ) - brothers ( 5/10 ) - shaft ( 7/10 ) - summer of sam ( 7/10 ) - what's cooking ( 7/10 ) 
dogma -a review by bill chambers ( bill@filmfreakcentral . net ) starring linda fiorentino , matt damon , ben affleck , chris rock written and directed by kevin smith linda fiorentino disappeared off the radar after a deservedly heralded turn in the cable pic the last seduction , and her being cast as dogma's lead is nothing short of inexplicable . she's still in fine form as bethany , an abortion clinic worker who's lost her faith . one night , a visitor from heaven makes a fiery entrance in bethany's bedroom . he is metatron ( alan rickman ) , the voice of god , and he needs her help : she must stop two fallen angels from entering a new jersey church-the fate of the universe depends on it . god would do it him/herself , but he/she is . . . missing , having taken up human form somewhere on earth never to be heard from again . bethany is joined on her road trip to the garden state by the " prophets " jay ( jason mewes ) and silent bob ( kevin smith , doing double-duty ) , the slacker minstrels who have appeared in all of smith's films thus far . at some point , rock drops naked out of the sky as rufus , the undocumented ( and very black ) " thirteenth apostle " , and offers his assistance , as does divine stripper serendipity ( salma hayek ) . it's a wild ride . they're in pursuit of loki and bartleby ( damon and affleck , respectively-this is probably the sharpest either has ever been ) , who were banished from heaven to wisconsin and have discovered a dogmatic loophole that will enable their return . loki decides to wreak havoc along the way with the knowledge that his sins will be absolved at the pearly gates . at one point , he terrorizes a boardroom full of suits with an angry combination of words and bullets . it's a nasty , guiltily enjoyable little scene that asks , " how corrupt are you ? " . wings of desire this ain't . since debuting with clerks , smith has grown as a director , particularly in terms of working with actors . ( chris rock is this film's only weak link-between jokes , he's wooden . ) his no-frills visual style hasn't changed much over the years , though ( dogma's widescreen compositions at least have blockbuster affectations ) , nor has his writing-his characters still sit around delivering one caustic , hilarious speech after another . dogma chips away at big religious issues-namely , the hypocrisy that accompanies any organized system of beliefs-eloquently and articulately , but a few of the monologues sound too much like blatant exposition . as well , the verbal introduction of each new person seems to take forever . any movie with this much weighty talk would have a hard time maintaining momentum ( hurlyburly , anyone ? ) , and eventually dogma's pacing goes slack . a long diatribe from bartleby late in the game , in which he laments the destiny of celestial beings , comes at a point when we've heard enough . because his change of heart ( bartleby is initially the good cop to loki's bad ) drives the climax , said rant is given a great deal of screen time . sure , affleck deserved a big moment ( damon steals their scenes together prior ) , but it ultimately makes the film and us feel bloated . like tarantino , smith was a video-age sponge who became a sample-mad indie filmmaker . dogma pays welcome homage to an eclectic batch of movies , including indiana jones and the last crusade , with silent bob doing his best harrison ford , and weird science-a shit demon attacks our heroes ! smith also has a kitchen sink brand of humour : his dexterous maneuvering between the satirical ( a cardinal played by george carlin attempts to mount a publicity campaign with the slogan " catholicism wow ! " ) and the scatalogical ensures that no lover of comedy will leave dogma feeling malnourished . i bust ( ed ? ) a gut on several occasions . proceedings also get off on the right foot with the opening with the funniest disclaimer ever . it's a disclaimer unlikely to put protestors at ease , for to read it , one actually has to see dogma . the prerelease ballyhoo is in the tradition of the last temptation of christ's , martin scorsese's 1988 adaptation of nikos kazantzakis' controversial novel , in that it is not directly linked to the picture's content but to rumours and heresy . there's a famous anecdote about fletch director michael ritchie inviting picketers of the last temptation of christ into a screening on his dime , just so they could know for certain what they were rallying against . ( not one of them had watched it . ) every single person refused . smith and scorsese have a lot in common , and so do the two films in question , because both smith's bethany and scorsese's jesus are hollow shells without their faith . in fact , dogma's denouement ( which follows a thrilling showdown that's worth the wait ) is a catholic love-in , a veritable recruitment poster . ( i felt sentimental about a religion i don't belong to . now that's powerful filmmaking . ) smith is nothing if not sincere about his own devotion to god , and that spirituality shines through . it's enough to make me forgive dogma for its editorial sins . my religion is movies . when the catholic league beats on dogma for imaginary crimes against a doctrine , in a roundabout way they're attacking what i live for : freedom of expression through celluloid . i therefore feel that , although i'm no bible-thumper , i'm at least as qualified to criticize dogma as william donohue and his followers . 
when i was growing up in 1970s , boys in my school used to divide into two groups , based on their action movies preferences . the first one , myself included , liked movies that featured spectacular car chases , lots of machinegun fire and huge explosions . the latter one preferred hong kong martial arts flicks , probably because they could ( or , to be more precise , thought they could ) imitate its stunts in the real life . decades later , while refining my own cinematic taste , i began to appreciate and actually like those movies , probably because of overexposure to shoot-em-up idiocy of 1980s ramboids . yes , most of the kung fu and other " martial arts " flicks were cheap , they had predictable and formulaic plot , and asked very little of production values aside from martial arts skills . but , in the same time , those movies had their own rules and in the hands of capable director could become a terrific guilty pleasure and source of relaxation . the best of those movies , one that passed the test of time and managed to keep its own cult status after quarter of century was enter the dragon . made in 1973 in a joint hong kong - hollywood venture , it was intended to bring bruce lee's skills and kung fu philosophy to the western audience . it succeeded , but it is still debatable whether by its own merit or by the unfortunate and mysterious death of bruce lee that immortalised the myth about that actor . lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert . he is approached by interpol official who asks him to join tri-annual martial arts tournament that is held on a remote island , owned and controlled by han , renegade shaolin monk . interpol suspects that the martial arts business is just cover for narcotics , gun-running and prostitution operations and lee must find the evidence necessary for authorities to intervene . lee accepts the mission because of personal reasons - o'harra , han's brutal bodyguard was responsible for the tragic death of lee's sister years ago . the island is also destination of two colourful martial arts experts from us - williams ( played by jim kelly ) is black activist running from the racist police , and his friend roper wants to make money in order to pay gambling debts . the plot of enter the dragon was in many ways influenced by james bond ( the 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements in the man with the golden gun two years later ) . the main hero was faced against a power-hungry megalomaniac on a remote island , alone against whole army of bad guys . on the other hand , lee was more believable hero than bond ; deprived of guns and super-tech gadgets , he had to rely only on his personal skills in order to survive . in the same time , the plot , although extremely thin , allowed him even some internal battles - between the natural instinct to avenge his sister and his own anti-violent philosophy . the latter provided some opportunities to evaluate lee's acting skills and some new elements to his impressive screen presence . although two other main actors - john saxon being the obligatory good white guy and jim kelly being the obligatory black good guy - were intended to share top spot with lee , they served as nothing more than a comic relief . it is a real shame to see kelly , definitely the worse actor than saxon , to steal the scenes from him only because his lines , being the worst possible blaxploitation cliches , sound so damn over the top . other actors , not including shih kien who turns han into typical , although not very convincing bondian villain , are nothing more than fist fodder for bruce lee ( among them is young jackie chan ) . fighting scenes are still impressive today as they were 25 years ago , although they mostly lack gore associated with that genre . in many way they are also more realistic ( they were personally staged by lee himself ) , demanding only a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent . i'm not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan , but comparing those scenes with typical scenes today i simply can't avoid to appreciate the difference from today's movie fights when masses of bloody pulp manage to get up from the floor and win in the end . so , despite all the obvious flaws that preclude this movie of being top 100 of all times , enter the dragon is a incredibly entertaining piece of cinema and the martial arts flick that can be enjoyed even by those who don't like that particular genre . 
" oh my god , i sounded just like a mother ! " mrs . pascal , played with devilish wickedness by genevieve bujold , tells her son . " didn't i sound just like a mother ? " " you are a mother , " her son marty tells her disgustedly . " i know , but i still can't believe it . i look at you people and wonder , how did you ever fit in my womb ? " marty , you see , is a grown-up twin . although his sister , who thinks she is jackie-o , is certifiably insane , marty fits right in with the rest of this highly dysfunctional family in the witty black comedy the house of yes . mother and daughter , played in a brilliant performance by parker posey , are both varying degrees of wacko . most dysfunctional families in the movies are more angry and mean-spirited than diabolically abnormal as this one is . the daughter's fantasy of being jackie-o is probably the most sane part of her being . mrs . pascal is the sort that will not let jackie-o keep a hairbrush downstairs since food is kept on that level . she explains to marty's new fiancee , lesly ( tori spelling ) , soon after their first meeting that jackie-o was holding marty's private part when she came out of the womb . the dialog by wendy macleod , based on the play by mark waters , is so sharp and biting that it seems in danger of cutting through the celluloid at any moment . the script , reminiscent of a david mamet play , flows smoothly with its fast paced intelligence and mesmerizing set of bizarre characters . the exaggerated setup has lesly and marty arriving at the family's out of the way mansion during a thanksgiving day hurricane . in this storm are two sane individuals . the fiancee is a giddy , school-girl type , embarrassed by everything , a complete contrast to her rival jackie-o's bitter pseudo-sophistication . as the two twins' younger brother , anthony , freddie prinze jr . plays the all-america boy type whose only foible is his explicit obsession of bedding his brother's fiancee that night . " we all have our secrets , " jackie-o tells her potential sister-in-law , and boy , does she have a few . this is a house filled with them . ( when lesly calls it the family's " home " to mrs . pascal -- they've never had a visitor before lesly -- mrs . pascal becomes discombobulated until she realizes that lesly is talking about their " house . " ) in a film that gives new meaning to the phrase , " made for each other , " the twin's biggest , but not their only secret , is that they've had a long-term incestuous relationship . they don't like to discuss it , although they are not particularly ashamed of it . perfect for viewers who can appreciate perverse comedy , this story never pulls its punches . jackie-o tries in many ways , few subtle , to show that she is a better match for marty than that ditzy fiancee of his . in one scene marty and lesly are playing chop sticks together on the piano when jackie-o pushes her aside and starts playing a challenging classical piece for four hands . marty joins her as his fiancee looks on with envy . the chemistry between parker posey and josh hamilton is nothing short of amazing . they put down their little brother and most of the other sane people in the world . their ripostes are engaging filmmaking at its best . director mark waters keeps the show's energy level high and lets the leads sling zingers at each other at a furious pace . his crisp direction ensures the movie has nary an ounce of fat on it . jackie-o is temperamentally incapable of being nice . and being jealous , she cuts lesly down mercilessly . " were you poor ? " jackie-o asks her when she finds that lesly committed the crime of growing up impoverished . " did you eat pies ? chicken pot pies ? " " pancakes actually , lots of pancakes , " lesly replies with her usual sincerity . " a donut king , so is she like the queen ? , " jackie-o cattily inquires of marty when she learns that lesly works at a donut king . " are we entertaining royalty ? " with rolfe kent's whimsically sinister music it never seems clear where the story is headed . will it end in a big emotional explosion , a murder , people slowly cutting each other up with words , a familial catharsis , a weather disaster or what ? the emotionally charged play is clearly going somewhere , and the engaging characters captivate the audience with their spell . i'll not say more except that the ending is perfect and a bit of a surprise . the house of yes runs a blazing fast 1 : 25 . it is rated r for sexual situations and conversations , mature themes , violent overtones and some profanity . the movie would be fine for older and mature teenagers , i . e . , treat the movie as it were rated nc-17 . 
krippendorf's tribe is a formula comedy . done poorly , formulaic comedies might seem to signify the downfall of american cinema . however , every now and then , one emerges , like krippendorf's tribe , that actually works . professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) , the renowned anthropologist , is in trouble . his university gave him a hefty grant to discover a lost tribe in new guinea . however , he found . . . nothing . his wife has recently died , and he has spent the remainder of the grant money in raising his three kids : shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) and edmund ( carl michael lidner ) . tonight , he is expected to lecture on his newfound tribe . rather than break the news ( and face the consequences of misusing his funds ) , he invents a tribe : the shelmikedmu ( named after his kids ) . however , one lie begets another as he is not only required to deliver filmed proof of the shelmikedmu , but his research becomes a popular phenomenon . soon , professor krippendorf is caught up in an elaborate ruse in which he films mockumentary footage starring his children as the shelmikedmu tribal members . his efforts are hampered by the boasts of an over-eager colleague , veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , and the intense scrutiny of a rival anthropologist , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) . krippendorf's tribe does seem to require a little suspension of disbelief . no one seems to question the way his field documentaries seem to be shot with multiple cameras , or that his newly discovered tribesmen have startlingly blue eyes . luckily , as the film builds momentum , that suspension of disbelief is easy to come by . though there's some mild humor in the krippendorf family trying to pass themselves off as a lost tribe , the real humor of the film is in how james gets trapped in his ever increasing snowball of lies . the double meanings to many of the shelmikedmu appearances are enjoyable , and the comic timing required for some of the film's latter scenes is superb . richard dreyfuss is terrific as the hapless professor who soon loses control of his own imaginary tribe . jenna elfman's position as a romantic lead seems a bit forced at times , but she plays the part with extreme affability . even the kids , who in films like this tend to be a bit on the precocious side , are endearing and humorous . yes , the film does veer occasionally into some rather lowbrow humor , but it has the best excuse of all : it's funny . it may not go down as an all-time classic , but it certainly delivers what you expect from a comedy : plenty of laughs . 
starring tom hanks , david morse , michael duncan , doug hutchinson , james cromwell , bonnie hunt , patricia clarkson , barry pepper , michael jeter , sam rockwell , graham greene , jeffrey demunn , dabbs greer , eve brent , harry dean stanton and gary sinise . it is simply amazing how " the green mile " developed in its three hour running time . based on the stephen king series of the same title , the film starts out painfully slow , with underdeveloped characters and idiotic dialogue . however , as the plot begins to progress , the film turns into pure perfection with outstanding performances and wonderful direction . frank darabont , who masterfully followed a prisoner's story in " the shawshank redemption " , this time follows the perspective of a prison guard , paul edgecomb ( tom hanks ) . through edgecomb's experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait and repent , the audience sees good and evil on both sides of the law . from an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner , " the green mile " is successful in creating sympathy for kind-hearted hard working guards and hard thinking prisoners . the plot follows edgecomb and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners and after having strong relationships with each eventually are forced to execute them . the performances by veterans and new comers to back up these original characters are superb . the ensemble acting in the film is perfect . hanks , david morse and barry pepper as guards are wonderful and are fitting for their roles . they are the characters we most relate to because of their calm less extreme roles . they are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times and they are the ones who fulfill the demands of the audience . the more unique characters perfectly create friction on the green mile and make the story interesting and exciting . some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters include doug hutchinson , sam rockwell , and michael duncan . hutchinson , playing percy wetmore , a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance of the movie . every time he appears on the screen , the attitude of others is very uncomfortable and the creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying . it would come as no surprise if hutchinson was nominated for an academy award as best supporting actor , not only because he did a wonderful job as wetmore , but also because he stole every scene he was in away from veteran oscar winner tom hanks . rockwell , an independent film veteran , plays his role as wild bill wharton to perfection . as a prisoner who taunts and harasses the guards at all hours , he really gets under your skin and irritates you for having to watch him torture others . this irritation he creates makes his performance so believable . the last noteworthy performance belongs to duncan , as the enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill . duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child-like behemoth , very similar to lennie small in of mice and men . his desire for love and the extinction of hate evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause . his pain creates pain for the viewer . however , it takes over an hour for duncan to be introduced completely in the film . the film opens with a ridiculous present day setting which contains a scene that jabs at " the jerry springer show . " the scene , containing one old man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred and rednecks . not only is this observation entirely pointless and out of place , but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief . as the film flashes back to 1935 , graham greene is quickly executed without any introduction . his death seems very rushed and without any knowledge of who he is , the scene is neither sad nor convincing . greene is not even given a final word , like some of the other characters , and we don't even see him walk the infamous green mile . however , as the film begins to specifically introduce more characters , such as coffey and eduard delacroix ( michael jeter ) as well as the five prison guards , the film becomes more interesting . the speed in " the green mile " is perfect . if time was a matter of concern and the film was edited to the two hour mark , it would have been unsatisfactory because we would not be able to know the characters as they are or as they treat others . the three hour running is perfect for plot development and by the end of the film , a great amount of love or hate is attached to each character . " the green mile " is so good following the rough beginning , that when the pivotal moment at the very end finally comes , it is almost impossible not to feel some sort of sadness for every person in this scene . fighting back tears was a difficult task that i barely succeeded in doing . if you survive the first third of " the green mile " sit back and enjoy the remainder for some priceless entertainment . 
tbwp is probably the single most profitable film ever . not surprising , considering its tiny us$100 , 000 budget , to date it has earned in excess of us$130 million . that's a shocking 100 times profit ! rumours have it that a smart internet `marketing' ploy was so successful in gaining cult-like fanatics , by word of mouth coupled with strings of excellent reviews , the film just exploded in the box-office , raking in millions on its opening weekend . shot in 16mm and video ( i suspect . ) , the film chronicles the forays of 3 students who go in search for the legendary blair witch . audiences are put in the first-person perspective in the entire mis-adventure , often wobbly and blurry at times , it takes a bit of getting used to in the beginning . this is supposed to be the material they discovered in the woods where the 3 disappeared ; edited and put onto the screen for the benefit of our audiences . tbwp is simply smart . filmed to look as if it was really a stock-shoot by a bunch of students in search of the blair witch as a school project , one may suspect ( like yours truly ) that its simply a lazy but smart approach to film-making . simply amazing in that respect , i must say . talk about impact , oh yes , tbwp does have quite a bit , in fact most audience will find it deeply disturbing . i did , especially the last bit but i'm not revealing more . you have to see it for yourself . i can't help but feel a tad cheated after knowing how commercially successful this film has become . could it be that finally , an indie-film has unwittingly found a formula for commercial appeal ? or was it all simply a ploy by the big players right from the beginning ? well , i guess the fact stays ; tbwp is highly original , clever and will most definitely leave most with something dreadful to talk and think about for weeks prior to watching this film . no gore , no special effects , i just can't get over how terribly smart this film is ! 
alien resurrection ( r )  ) 1992's alien3 marked not only the death ( by suicide ) of its popular protagonist , ellen ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , but , in many ways , the alien franchise itself--box office receipts were anemic , thanks to poor audience word of mouth ; and the critics who rallied around the first two installments , 1979's alien and 1986's aliens , savaged david fincher's slog of a sendoff ( myself included ) . hence , weaver , director jean-pierre jeunet , and the others behind alien resurrection faced a two-fold challenge--not only somehow resurrect ripley , but also rescue this once-profitable series from the scrap heap . despite the odds , they have succeeded , even if the entertaining new installment does not measure up to the excellent first two . writer joss whedon devises a quick , easy , and painless answer to the dead ripley problem--clone her , which is what shady military scientists do using some blood left behind on fiorina 161 , the prison planet of the third film . that done , the _real_ challenge presents itself--what do with her . alien introduced ripley as smart and resourceful ; aliens simultaneously toughened her up and made her more vulnerable , exploring her maternal side ; alien3 saw her undergoing the seven stages of death . what could be next ? whedon comes up with a clever spin : since the original ripley died while impregnated with an alien queen , the blood used for the clone is also " infected " with alien dna . so the new ripley is , indeed , new--a human/alien hybrid blessed with heightened instincts and strength , a psychic bond with the deadly species , and a more predatory attitude . unfortunately , that is where alien resurrection's clever streak in writing stops . the alien series is known for having stronger stories than most creature features . but the story in resurrection is more of an afterthought . the movie begins with a plot involving some military types attempting to train aliens to do their bidding , but once the creatures break free , it is once again ripley and a ragtag crew ( this time a bunch of interstellar smugglers , including tough waif call , played by a game winona ryder ) trying to exterminate them . and the alien ripley scenario is ultimately not exploited to its full potential ; i would have liked deeper exploration into the quandary of becoming one of the species she has spent her entire life trying to destroy . while the settling into tried-and-true formula is a little disconcerting , the formula is tried-and-true for a reason , and jeunet tackles the proceedings with giddy abandon . the alien , after all these years , is still terrifying , and a new breed that is introduced is no less so . the violence is appropriately grisly and extreme , and the action set pieces are suspenseful and exciting , most notably an extended underwater sequence . the film is absolutely mesmerizing visually , thanks to the solid work done by production designer nigel phelps and cinematographer darius khondji . as technically adept as jeunet's direction is , perhaps his ( and , for that matter , whedon's ) greatest contribution is the infusion of humor into this notably downbeat and serious series . a sense of humor may seem to go against everything this horror show stands for , but the self-awareness of the excess just adds to the fun . no , alien resurrection is not the great film that ridley scott's alien or the even greater film that james cameron's aliens was . but after the dauntingly slow gloom and doom of fincher's alien3 , jeunet's resurrection is a welcome return to its roots as a wild , reckless thrill ride . that is what made the alien series so popular in the first place , and that is what will keep the series popular in any future installments . 
by phil curtolo mel gibson ( braveheart ) gave a gripping performance as the father of a young kidnapped boy in ron howard's ransom . gibson plays tom mullen , a wealthy business tycoon whose past actions are coming back to haunt him as a deranged psychopath , played by gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , and his band of low-life thugs kidnap his only son for $2 million . tom and his wife , kate , played by rene russo ( tin cup ) were instructed not to inform the police , but they contacted the fbi . minutes later , an elite team of agents led by delroy lindo ( broken arrow ) are in tom's house and wiring every phone . the plot sounds average , just like most other kidnap movies that you've already seen , and it was nothing more than that . that is until about half-way through the movie . suddenly , tom goes to the fox 5 news room and makes a live broadcast saying , " this is your ransom . but this is as close as you will ever get to it . instead , i am offering this money as a reward on your head , dead or alive . " at this point , the plot thickened , and the unusually slow start of the film turned into a suspense-filled action film with great stunts . the last half of the film is very well done . another thing that carries this film are the superb performances by gibson and sinise , as they collide in a game of wits over their cellular phones for most of the movie . owen gleiberman of entertainment weekly commented on the subject : " it makes you wonder what kidnappers did before cell phones . " before this movie , sinise played mostly " good guys , " first in of mice & men , then in forrest gump , and most recently , in apollo 13 . but he was surprisingly devilish and cold in his portrayal of a cop-gone-bad . gibson , of course , was just being gibson , in an oscar-worthy performance . although most of the scenes were quite predictable , ransom is a very entertaining and suspenseful film . grade : b- ,  
directed by curtis hanson . screenplay by steve kloves , based on the novel by michael chabon . starring michael douglas , tobey maguire , robert downey jr . running time : 114 minutes . rated aa . reviewed on march 19th , 2000 . a quiet , understated character piece , " wonder boys " is the sort of movie which , when recalled afterward , seems more like a dream than something actually experienced . slow-moving but never plodding , funny and original without being absurd , it is a pleasurable journey through one man's personal struggles . grady tripp ( michael douglas ) is a university of pittsburgh english professor who wrote a critically-acclaimed novel seven years ago and hasn't published anything since . most people think tripp is washed up , but the truth is that his new novel just isn't finished yet ; it is now two thousand single-spaced pages long and counting . tripp , whose wife has just left him , is having an affair with the university chancellor , sara gaskell ( frances mcdormand ) . sara's husband walter ( richard thomas ) is the head of the english department and hence grady's boss . tripp's most promising student is james leer ( tobey maguire ) , a dour and eccentric youth held in disdain by most of his classmates . the lone exception is hannah green ( katie holmes ) , who is also boarding with grady and is clearly interested in taking their relationship beyond the academic . the movie takes place during wordfest , a weekend-long writers' convention . the gaskells host a party to kick off wordfest , during which sara reveals to grady that she is pregnant . going outside for a draw , tripp ( aptly named , given that he spends most of the movie under the influence of drugs , both prescription and otherwise ) encounters james , standing in the backyard with a gun he insists is just a fake . the two sneak upstairs to have a look at walter's collection of memorabilia . when grady is attacked by the gaskells' dog , james shoots it dead . at a loss , tripp ends up lugging the canine corpse around in his trunk until he can figure out what to do about it . all this is just set-up for a sometimes harrowing , always amusing odyssey through the streets of pittsburgh and the problems which plague grady's life . he finds himself having to deal not just with the end of his marriage and the complication of his affair , not just with the dead dog and a stolen piece of walter's collection , not just with editor terry crabtree ( robert downey jr ) whose own job is riding on the publication of tripp's new novel , but with the enigma that is james leer . james isn't just a writer ; the entirety of his behavior is one big creative process ( at one point , intoxicated , he begins narrating out loud ) and it is impossible to take anything he says or does at face value : the fake-gun-that-isn't is just the tip of the iceberg of james' fantasies and deceptions . " wonder boys " is a smart movie that understands its characters and takes the time to develop and explore them fully . written by steve kloves from the novel by michael chabon , it is populated by believable individuals who make believable choices , not ones dictated by stereotypical hollywood expectations . for example , both terry and james are clearly not strictly heterosexual , but when they finally do end up in bed together , it is dealt with almost offhandedly . the event is just a natural development of both characters , and the script does not grind to a halt to exploit it . nothing in " wonder boys " feels staged or melodramatic ; realism seethes from its characters , their relationships with each other , and the decisions they make . but perhaps this is all to be expected . " wonder boys " is a movie all about making choices and the consequences of avoiding them , and a film with such a theme lives and dies on the conviction of its characters . grady has spent the past half-decade evading decisions , and it has cost him his marriage . here , then , is the story of how he comes to rise above his personal apathy and seize control of his life . nowhere is this theme of making choices more clearly illustrated than with grady's epic novel . even hannah , grady's potential new love interest , finds it impossible to finish , but not because it is poorly written . on the other hand , hannah thinks it is beautiful , but she tells grady , " you didn't make any choices " : grady has not found the will to leave anything out of the text , and as a result it has ballooned to mammoth proportions . the manuscript's final fate depicts another important fact about decisions : that sometimes they're made for you , not by you . the movie's dialogue is sparkling throughout , and there are plenty of laughs , many of them derived from the film's frank view of reality . surprisingly for a movie which muses on so deep a theme , " wonder boys " has many of the elements of a screwball comedy , complete with mistaken identities and misplaced valuables . but the screwball elements are always in service to the overall plot , complementing it rather than fragmenting the film . as a result , " wonder boys " is appealing and enjoyable on a number of different levels . the acting is uniformly excellent . douglas finds just the right note as the harried grady , portraying him as confused and aimless without making him seem weak . maguire , always a quiet , reserved actor , is a perfect fit as james -- he is quirky , inspired and fragile , all at the same time . amongst the supporting cast , richard knox gives a hilarious performance as a man who claims to be the real owner of grady's battered car . for a movie about choices , " wonder boys " makes all the right ones . it is smart and well-acted , and the top-notch script finds a good balance between drama and comedy . although its sheer placidness may work against it in such a crowded box office , it should not be overlooked . this may be one of the first oscar contenders of the year 2000 . copyright © 2000 shannon patrick sullivan . archived at http : //www . physics . mun . ca/~sps/movies/wonderboys . html 
niagara niagara ( r )  ) bob gosse's niagara niagara follows a blueprint not unlike a lot of young-lovers-on-the-road movies . wild marcy ( robin tunney ) and calm seth ( henry thomas ) meet cute , literally running into each other while shoplifting at a local store . a mere couple of scenes later , the two embark on a journey to toronto from their small , unnamed american town in pursuit of a rare doll that marcy desperately wants . along the way , true love inevitably blossoms . what sets niagara niagara apart , though , is that marcy is afflicted with tourette's syndrome , a neurological disorder that causes sudden muscle and vocal tics . tunney , displaying an acting range not hinted at in the teenage witch thriller the craft , delivers an astonishing performance that won her the best actress prize at last year's venice film festival . to term her work a tour-de-force is not to imply that she attacks the scenery ; tunney's effectiveness lies in her modulation and vulnerability , which makes her depiction of marcy's illness--which often causes her to act violently--that much more convincing and tragic . she and the nicely subtle thomas develop a sweetly innocent and beguilingly off-kilter chemistry . their journey hits a few rough spots creatively along the way , mostly the fault of writer matthew weiss . a detour involving a kindly widower ( michael parks ) who takes the couple in brings the story to a screeching halt , and the key character of a trigger-happy pharmacist ( stephen lang ) is highly unbelievable . but these missteps do not blunt the power of tunney's bravura turn , which carries niagara niagara to a level of poignance it would not have otherwise achieved . ( opens march 20 ) 
" high fidelity " ( 2000 )  directed by stephen frears written by d . v . devincentis , steve pink , john cusack , and scott michael rosenberg starring john cusack , iben hjejle , jack black , todd louiso , lisa bonet , catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor , joan cusack , natasha gregson wagner , and tim robbins just look back two years ago at the coen brothers' comedic gem the big lebowski , change the actors , take away the bowling alley , add a record store , and you've got high fidelity ( or maybe the other way around since nick hornby's novel high fidelity came first ) . either way , it's been done before , a trio of losers cracking jokes and complaining about their failed romances , yet it remains consistently funny . why is this ? maybe because you know your life is much better than this , you know these guys are more pathetic than you are , and you know its ok to laugh at them because they're fictional . director stephen frears , possibly not intentionally , has created a movie that makes you feel good about yourself and even that ostensibly no good uncle who watches television twenty four hours a day . when watching high fidelity , expect to laugh at someone else's pain , realize what you are laughing at , and then laugh again . i laughed at dick ( todd louiso ) , the shy , timorous , steve buscemi character of lebowski , who seems to know what he is talking about but either can't put it into words or is harshly rejected by his friends . i laughed at the john goodman character barry ( jack black ) , an exact replica of the comic bookstore owner on the simpsons , pudgy , egotistic , and obnoxious at the same time . and i laughed at rob ( john cusack ) , the jeff bridges type , whom the story revolves around . rob is the character easiest to relate to , but he is nothing like you at all . he uncontrollably cheats and lies , then is unable to realize why he can not hold onto a woman . and like his other miserable friends , pop music is where he inevitably goes for comfort . he spends the afternoons at his job quizzing his coworkers with obscure trivia or listening to new music and either deriding it or praising it . whatever human emotions the clash , aretha franklin , and bruce springsteen records hold , rob and co . grasp them and help fill voids in their social lives . rob has built an extensive collection in his record store as well as his home and he organizes them depending on what mood he is in . during this confused stage of his life in which the movie focuses on , rob is trying to cope with numerous rejections over the years by visiting past girlfriends and eventually asking why they dumped him . but these aren't any girlfriendsthese girls made the all time top five break ups in the history of rob ( rob's incessant use of lists show how pop music has played a major role in his life ) . the plot in three words is : women and music . the approach director stephen frears takes by having the charismatic rob speak directly to the camera is very effective . it gives high fidelity a quickly paced , informal structure , adjectives which perfectly parallel rob's own lifestyle . it also helps open the viewer's eyes as to how annoying barry is . jack black steals the show with a hilariously realistic performance as a total sleaze ball . just listening to him speak for five minutes makes the audience immediately sympathetic for rob , who must work with him every day of the week . what frears does so well is that he makes us feel sorry for rob while laughing at his misfortunes . john cusack plays his character convincingly but it is the strong supporting cast , consisting of big stars and character actors , that really defines rob . now instead of rob just talking to the camera , after he explains something , the remaining cast members physically and humorously create what he is trying to say . the only problem with high fidelity is that it doesn't end when it should have ended . instead the movie goes on for a torturous twenty minutes that seem a lot longer than that . also bruce springsteen is completely wasted in a brief cameo halfway through the movie . high fidelity is a cheerful , old fashioned comedy with a voluminous soundtrack and as many laughs . i just hope hollywood keeps creating losers on the big screen , they make everyone look and feel great . 
directed by irwin winkler . cast : val kilmer , mira sorvino , kelly mcgillis , nathan lane , steven weber , bruce davison . 1999 - 128 minutes . rated pg-13 ( for profanity and sexual situations ) . reviewed january 22 , 1999 . like the wonderful 1990 drama , " awakenings , " starring robin williams and robert de niro , " at first sight , " directed by irwin winkler , is inspired by a true story documented by physicfirst sight , " directed by irwin winkler , is inspired by a true story documented by physician oliver sacks . since " awakenings " was so very good , and made my top ten list the year it was released , " at first sight " is not quite as strong since it is not directed with as sure a hand as penny marshall , but is still an intelligent and vibrantly-acted drama . the film begins as amy ( mira sorvino ) , a stressed-out new york architect , decides to take some time off and travel upstate to the country . at the hotel she is staying at , she makes a massage appointment and after a long , soothing session which ends with her crying as a release of emotions , she strikes up a conversation with the handsome masseur virgil ( val kilmer ) , only to find out later that he is actually blind . amy doesn't really care if he has a handicap or not , and begins to spend time with him more and more until they finally start to fall in love . once she has returned to new york , amy begins to research on virgil's certain type of retinal blindness , which he has had since three years of age , and out of a stroke of luck , comes into contact with a doctor ( bruce davison ) who believes he can repair virgil's sight , even though there have only been thirty similar cases in history . at first reluctant , virgil finally travels with amy to nyc and agrees to the surgery , much to the hesitance of his overbearing , but loving older sister ( kelly mcgillis ) . ultimately , the surgery is a success , but problems arise since virgil cannot relate to what he sees , since he has never visually seen anything before , only touched objects . he moves into amy's apartment and she is eager to stand by him , but virgil's maladjustment begins to put a strain on their relationship . on the basis of the overall story , " at first sight " is indeed a film that has been done many times before , and owes a great deal to its predecessor , " awakenings . " what will happen throughout the film can also be easily telegraphed in advance . however , what helps " at first sight " rise above this predictability is in the mature and intelligent relationship that develops between virgil and amy . usually , romantic pictures are of the shameless puppy-dog sort ( the recent tom hanks/meg ryan-starrer " you've got mail " immediately pops to mind ) , but with this film , i grew to care more about the characters and their plight . the film starts off noticably well as amy travels up north and first meets virgil . the massaging sequences were strangely erotic , maybe even more so than the later actual " love scenes , " and as their romantic involvement quickly developed , the film was both entertaining and sweet , and there was clearly a lot of chemistry between the two . these joyous moments early on balanced out well with the later scenes in which their relationship is seriously tested due to a contrast in the life styles that they have always known , with virgil completely used to being blind and having a comforting , peaceful life in the country to amy's eventful life in the " big city . " the other major compliment that must be given to the film are the nearly flawless performances across the board . val kilmer , usually cast in the " macho " type of role , was always believable as a blind person , and playing his character was probably a little more tricky than it appears . it was up to kilmer to not come off as someone to pity , but to sympathize with , and he pulled it off . mira sorvino , who made a spectacular debuting splash in 1995's hilarious woody allen comedy , " mighty aphrodite , " for which she won a well-deserved oscar as a kind-hearted , but ditzy hooker , is a standout here . although she has made some mediocre film choices since then ( 1997's " mimic , " 1998's " the replacement killers " ) , she always has managed to come out unscathed , and it is with " at first sight " that she finally has another juicy role to play . in a truthful climactic scene set in amy's apartment between she and virgil , sorvino proves to be one of the most gifted young actresses around today , and has a flare for both comedic and dramatic pieces . kelly mcgillis , who could have easily come off as the " bad , " one-dimensional sister , instead is also given an unexpectedly multifaceted character to play as a woman who may be overly protective but simply cares for her brother . finally , nathan lane , who is usually a little too over-the-top , is appropriately restrained as a vision therapist . the one misstep of " at first sight " is in its treatment of the medical procedure done on virgil . very little is ever said or discussed concerning it , and when the surgery occurs , it is so briefly glimpsed at that it is impossible to see what is being done to his eyes . perhaps the reason this aspect of the film was not more in-depth was that the makers were afraid it would gross out audiences , but i would personally take realism , even if it is graphic , any day over simply giving the explanation of the surgery the cold shoulder . in " awakenings , " the patients and illness were far more satisfyingly portrayed . because of how strong the screenplay , written by steve levitt , is in the way it deals with the main relationship , and because of the fabulous performances from kilmer and sorvino , the film's few problems can be swept over to the side . the adult way that the romance is depicted by director irwin winkler is , no doubt , in respect to the real-life couple that the film was inspired by , who are still together after many years ( even though the setting of the film was changed to new york ) . since january is usually the time of year that is known as the dumping ground from bad movies , " at first sight " comes as a refreshing and sophisticated change of pace . 
eddie murphy has had his share of ups and downs during his career . known for his notorious late 80's slump , murphy has still managed to bounce back with a handful of hits in the past few years . with the exception of the dreadful holy man , he appears to be on pace for a full-fledged comeback . life was a great move on the part of murphy and co-star martin lawrence , because it's a great showcase for both actors that never resorts to slap-sticky drivel . director ted demme is smart enough to realize that the two comedians can generate enough genuine laughs on their own , and doesn't insert a distracting plot to back them up . life is , in a sense , one great balancing act with murphy on one end and lawrence on the other . amazingly , the scale never tips in either's favor due to the marvelous chemistry and wonderful contrast that each actor allows the other . as the movie opens , we're introduced to ray gibson ( eddie murphy ) , a two-timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way into a club . there he meets a successful businessman named claude banks ( martin lawrence ) . somehow , after multiple contrivances , the mismatched pair find themselves on their way to mississippi on a moonshine run . when all is said and done , ray and claude have been framed for a murder that was actually committed by the town sheriff . hence the setting of life : mississippi state prison , where the main characters come to realize their unlikely friendship is important , and become set on finding an fool-proof escape plan . the film takes us from the 30's all the way to the 90's , presenting a difficult task in showing how the aging process affects ray and claude . luckily , rick baker handles the makeup effects of the two actors in a fantastic , academy award caliber manner . not only do we believe the characters look as if they're 90 years old , but they sound like it , too . murphy and lawrence are completely convincing in the lead roles , even as crotchety old cons bickering over a game of cards . this is just one of the pleasant surprises that the film has tucked up it's sleeve . while the ads are marketing life as a straight arrow comedy , there is a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it's core . but the comedic aspects work wonderfully , wisely drawing strength from the talents of the two stars . the movie is more of a comedy than it is a drama , but in both senses , it's an overwhelming delight . i could say a few bad things about the movie , but i don't want to . it's such a nice surprise , such a great vehicle for eddie murphy and martin lawrence , that it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin to roll . 
one of the last entries in the long-running carry on series , carry on behind is very similar to carry on camping in that it involves a group of holidaymakers descending on a 'caravan' site . professors anna vrooshka ( elke sommer ) and roland crump ( kenneth williams ) and a group of archaeology students stay in the caravan site owned by major leep ( kenneth connor ) so that they can explore the nearby roman settlement remains . anna has a little trouble understanding english and sometimes people get the wrong end of the stick : - for instance , when anna is asking for 'scrubbers for dirty caravan' , she means that she wants a scrubbing brush to clean the caravan ! arthur upmore ( bernard bresslaw ) and his wife linda ( patsy rowlands ) take her mother daphne barnes ( joan sims ) and her minah bird on holiday with them . mother-in-law jokes prevail . furthermore , the trouble that joe and norma baxter ( ian lavender and adrienne posta ) have with their large irish greyhound allows for some comical moments between the two families . fred ramsden ( windsor davies ) and ernie bragg ( jack douglas ) leave their wives ( liz fraser and patricia franklin ) behind for a fishing holiday . however , they have more in mind than fishing when they catch sight of two young girls , sandra ( carol hawkins ) and carol ( sherrie hewson ) . the story involves the disruption caused by the archaeological professors of the day-to-day running of the camp , the search for the minah bid and greyhound , the major , fred and ernie's desperate need of a woman , a misunderstanding leading to a striptease at the caravan park's pub , and a shock in store for daphne . the partnership between sommer and williams is very effective and amusing . this is what binds the movie together . joan sims stands out as the demanding mother-in-law , bernard bresslaw and patsy rowlands work well together as husband and wife , and carol hawkins and sherrie hewson are a welcome addition to the cast . on the other hand , there are low-key performances from kenneth connor and peter butterworth as barnes the handyman , and there are very poor performances by windsor davies and jack douglas who spend far too much time on the screen ! even though there is no real plot to speak of and the jokes are getting bluer due to the new scriptwriter dave freeman , there are enough truly comical moments and bright and breezy performances to lift this carry on above many of its predecessors . although the regular cast is depleted , the ones that remain show that they can still make a good carry on film . a relative flop at the cinema , this movie deserves a lot more recognition . 
hype ? sheesh , like no other . this side of titanic , good will hunting has enjoyed some of the most baffling , gushing praise of the year . does either film deserve it ? not really . let's look at the facts : you have matt damon as will hunting -- apparently the smartest man on the face of the earth who can also kick anyone's ass over breakfast , and has a history of run-ins with the law . oh no ! affleck is his down-to-earth best bud . driver , the hoity-toity love interest . williams and skarsgård as hunting's mentors , the guys that rescue him from a prison sentence for assaulting a police officer . and it is made abundantly clear that the film is also about the class stuggle in boston . now that i've typed it out , it sounds ridiculous , and the more i think about it , the more it really * is * . the plot and theme of good will hunting hinge upon the idea that it's tough for the smartest man in the world to make the move from crumb-bum to respectable member of society . why ? because ( a ) " just because he has a gift he doesn't have to use it ! " and ( b ) he had a troubled childhood . well , boo hoo ! the more i write , the more it sounds like a topic on " jenny jones " : boy geniuses on the wrong side of the tracks . right . if any believable character had this guy's abilities , this movie would have been much different . . . and probably much shorter , too . i realize i'm ranting here , but the pop psychology of hunting reaches such a high level of annoyance so that when williams tearfully confronts damon with the film's signature line of -- i kid you not -- " it's not your fault , " it just gets silly . and it lost me . the script , written by damon and affleck , is otherwise humorous and keeps you entertained . van sant's direction is inexplicably amateurish and features some lousy voice dubbing . williams is pretty good in his role , and for what it's worth , so is damon , even though the character is ludicrous . all told , the film has plenty of enjoyable moments , but it's just not the deep experience the filmmakers want you to believe it is . and neither was titanic . that ought to guarantee me plenty of hate mail for the next few weeks . fire away . 
for those of us who weren't yet born when the 1960's rock 'n' rolled around , monterey pop affords an affectionate glimpse of the music that influenced our parents to be hippies . from otis redding to jimi hendrix , janis joplin to the mamas and the papas , and jefferson airplane to the who , this documentary is jam-packed with contagious energy . but i give fair warning that i will reveal the ending , which does not do the rest of the film the justice it deserves . shot in 1969 at an outdoor concert that precluded woodstock , the film defies the stereotype of the general population at the time . sure , some have painted their faces and smoke joints , but d . a . pennebaker ( the war room , moon over broadway ) surprisingly chooses to show a broad spectrum of the audience . no matter who is watching , it all comes back to the talented musicians that stir your soul . the excitement starts before the music even begins . a young girl is cleaning thousands of seats and when asked why by an interviewer , she replies that she feels lucky to do so . there are moments of organized craziness as john phillips , leader of the mamas and the papas and one of the concert organizers , tries to get in touch with dionne warwick . and when one band is tuning up , a member remarks , " finally , a decent sound system ! " you can tell just by watching these first few moments that this show isn't about vanity , it's about playing the music you love to those who have an appreciation for it , a two-way street . this interaction between audience and performer continues throughout the film and becomes infectious to the audience . it's impossible to tear your eyes away from janis joplin as she belts out her ballad about love being a ball and chain . and while the lyrics to " wild thing " may not be all that complicated , watching jimi hendrix mime having sex with his guitar is as captivating as otis redding singing about love . even if you don't recognize every band you see on stage , you can imagine being as enthralled by their work as the public sitting in those seats . the only drawback to the film is the ending , which unfortunately i must reveal . all the other bands , big names then and still today , got approximately 7 to 10 minutes of screen time . in contrast , the last band on camera , a wholly forgettable one , gets an entire 18 minutes of screen time . for a film that's only 78 minutes long , that's too large of a chunk , especially when previous acts are much more stimulating . all in all , monterey pop is a precious , rare look at a time period that still holds sway over us . the variety of music , as well as the beautifully shot performances , are easy to become immersed in . if there was ever any question as to why most of these bands were so popular , this is quickly dispelled . it's almost depressing to think that music this moving doesn't get made much anymore . instead we're stuck with * nsync , the backstreet boys , and jennifer lopez , all of whom should have stuck with modeling . 
what starts out as a monotonous talking-head musical history lecture turns into a rich land of louisiana discovery , as robert mugge adventures into the various landscapes of that colorful state . three different sections of louisiana are documented along the journey , northern , southern , and southwestern louisiana , separated by maps and cutesy subtitles . the latter two are the best installments , in that they allow the charismatic performers direct camera time without the interference of a boring onscreen interviewer . each county has a different character , style , instruments , and sound , all distinct in their origins , as local experts tell us , and mugge respectfully picks up these discerning traits . where one town declares that race isn't an issue , the other shows how racial tensions actually aided in black and white musicians inspiring one another . southern louisiana has a strong cajun/creole base , while northern louisiana leans towards guitar and a cappella singing . as a whole , this documentary is well layered with performance and testimony but could easily have been shorter and made the same impact on an audience . in the first section especially , numerous concert performances run superfluously through an entire song , with the camera panning to and fro , looking for something to do . every person put in front of the camera is introduced , but only half the multitude leave much of a mark . the director of the louisiana folk festival expounds on the glories of louisiana's past for an interminable period of time , but most of what he says goes in what ear and out the other . on the other hand , there's a remarkably short section devoted to a 28-year disc jockey veteran , sister pearlee tolliver . she spends her two hours on the radio exclaiming commercials in a gospel voice , with a couple of records thrown in , and she amuses too much to forget . as standard documentaries go , the expected talking heads are mixed in with live concert performances . but most endearing are the discussions with actual performers about their influences and playing style , and reminiscences about their colleagues . these interviews , juxtaposed with the local connoisseurs , provide a solid foundation for the musically ignorant and die hard fan . one of the best portraits is that of kermit ruffins , a local favorite in southwestern louisiana . he takes the historical roots of jazz and blues and mixes them with his own modern experiences growing up in the streets . popularity hasn't blown his ego either , as once in a while he barbeques for his audience out of the back of his truck . other details compliment this musical voyage . the first record store in louisiana , floyd's , is renowned for shipping impossible-to-find music all over the world . the original owner still runs it and helps to promote new talent such as rosie ledet . rosie was a housewife who taught herself how to play the accordion and she now sings and tours with her husband's band . at once mousy and humble , this lady has gone on to break ground for female artists in the zydeco field . before walking into to this film , one might think that all of louisiana could be clumped into a simple stereotype . it takes a while to be interested in the material , but once the filmmaker moves onto southern louisiana , it's hard to look away from the screen . 
jackie brown ( miramax - 1997 ) starring pam grier , samuel l . jackson , robert forster , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , michael bowen , chris tucker screenplay by quentin tarantino , based on the novel rum punch by elmore leonard produced by lawrence bender directed by quentin tarantino running time : 155 minutes note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . be forewarned . ------------------------------------------------------------- during the three years since the release of the groundbreaking success pulp fiction , the cinematic output from its creator , quentin tarantino , has been surprisingly low . oh , he's been busy -- doing the talk show circuit , taking small roles in various films , overseeing the production of his screenplay from dusk till dawn , making cameo appearances on television shows , providing a vignette for the ill-fated anthology four rooms -- everything , it seems , except direct another feature-length film . it's been the long intermission between projects as well as the dizzying peak which pulp fiction reached which has made mr . tarantino's new feature film , jackie brown , one of the most anticipated films of the year , and his third feature film cements his reputation as the single most important new american filmmaker to emerge from the 1990s . things aren't going well for jackie brown ( pam grier ) . she's 44 years old , stuck at a dead-end job ( " $16 , 000 a year , plus retirement benefits that aren't worth a damn " ) as a flight attendant for the worst airline in north america -- and she's just been caught at the airport by atf agent ray nicolette ( portrayed with terrific childlike enthusiasm by michael keaton ) and police officer mark dargus ( michael bowen ) smuggling $50 000 from mexico for gun-runner ordell robbie ( samuel l . jackson ) , who has her bailed out by unassuming bail bondsman max cherry ( robert forster ) . the loquacious ordell , based out of a hermosa beach house where his horny , bong-hitting surfer girl melanie ( bridget fonda ) and agreeable crony louis gara ( robert de niro ) hang out , operates under the policy that the best rat is a dead rat , and he's soon out to silence jackie brown . meanwhile , the authorities' target is ordell , and they want jackie to help them by arranging a sting to the tune of a half-million dollars . only through a series of clever twists , turns , and double-crosses will jackie be able to gain the upper hand on both of her nemeses . although jackie brown marks mr . tarantino's first produced screenplay adaptation ( based on the elmore leonard novel " rum punch " ) , there's no mistaking his distinctive fingerprints all over this film . while he's adhered closely to the source material in a narrative sense , the setting has been relocated to los angeles and the lead character's now black . in terms of ambiance , the film harkens back to the 1970s , from the wall-to-wall funk and soul music drowning the soundtrack to the nondescript look of the sets -- even the opening title credit sequence has the echo of vintage 1970s productions . the opening sequence featuring ms . grier wordlessly striding through the lax , funky music blaring away on the speakers , is emblematic of films of that era . the timeframe for the film is in fact 1995 , but the atmosphere of jackie brown is decidedly retro . of course , nothing in the film screams 1970s more than the casting of pam grier and robert forster as the two leads , and although the caper intrigue is fun to watch as the plot twists , backstabbing , and deceptions deliciously unfold , the strength of jackie brown is the quiet , understated relationship developed between jackie and max ; when they kiss , it's perhaps the most tender scene of the year . tenderness ? in a quentin tarantino film ? sure , there've been moments of sweetness in his prior films -- the affectionate exchanges between the bruce willis and maria de madeiros characters in pulp fiction and the unflagging dedication shared by the characters of tim roth and amanda plummer , or even in reservoir dogs , where a deep , unspoken bond develops between the harvey keitel and tim roth characters -- but for the most part , mr . tarantino's films are typified by manic energy , unexpected outbursts of violence , and clever , often wordy , banter . these staples of his work are all present in jackie brown , but what's new here is a different facet of his storytelling -- a willingness to imbue the film with a poignant emotional undercurrent , and a patience to draw out several scenes with great deliberation . this effective demonstration of range prohibits the pigeonholing of mr . tarantino as simply a helmer of slick , hip crime dramas with fast-talking lowlifes , and heralds him as a bonafide multifaceted talent ; he's the real deal . this new aspect of mr . tarantino's storytelling is probably best embodied in a single character -- that of the world-weary , sensitive , and exceedingly-professional max cherry , whose unspoken attraction to jackie is touching . mr . forster's nuanced , understated performance is the best in the film ; he creates an amiable character of such poignancy that when he gazes at jackie , we smile along with him . much press has been given about the casting of blaxploitation-era icon pam grier in the lead , with the wags buzzing that mr . tarantino may do for her what his pulp fiction did to bolster john travolta's then-sagging career . as it turns out , ms . grier is solid in the film's title role , although nothing here forces her to test her range . i do have to take exception to the claim that this film marks her career resurrection , though -- she's been working steadily over the years , often in direct-to-video action flicks , but also in such recent theatrical releases as tim burton's mars attacks ! and larry cohen's original gangstas ( where she first teamed up with mr . forster . ) of course , it's true that her role here was a godsend -- a meaty a part as this is rarity for * any * actress , let alone one of her age and current status in the industry . while jackie brown may disappoint those looking for another pulp fiction clone , it marks tremendous growth of mr . tarantino as a director whose horizons are rapidly expanding , and whose characterizations have never been better . and while the film's narrative doesn't really warrant a running time of 155 minutes , it's filled with such sumptuous riches , ranging from the brashness of the vivid soundtrack to entertaining , inconsequential conversations between the characters , that there wasn't an unengaging moment . with an impressive trio of feature films under his belt , it'll be interesting to see what he tries next . 
