director : josiane balasko writers : patrick aubrée and josiane balasko ( story by telsche borman ) starring : victoria abril , josiane balasko , alain chabat , ticky holgado , miguel bosé contrary to popular belief , not every single foregin film released to an american market is a masterpiece . some of them aren't even good . some examples of this principle are the aboslutely dreadful " un indien dans la ville " ( presented as " little indian , big city , " and remade into that crap tim allen flick , " jungle2jungle " ) , and this . what could have been a clever little sex comedy turns into one mess of a french flick . " french twist " ( the " cool " american title , not the real one , which was " gazon maudit , " literally meaning " twisted ground , " or something like that ) deals with a married couple with kids , and the intrusion of a stranger who kinda screws things up for them . loli and alain chabat ( victoria abril and alain chabat ) are not exactly happily married . always on business trips , alain chabat more than once cheats on her , and she eventually finds out . and one day , she meets a butch mechanic , marijo ( the co-writer/director josiane balasko ) , and they two kinda hit it off . so she decides she will get back at alain chabat by doing the obvious : sleeping with marijo . but she soons starts to not only fall in love with marijo , but she's also realizes she's still in love with alain chabat . so , of course , she does the obvious from that : she decides to keep them both . she'll be ( and sleep ) with each of them for 3 days each , then on sunday , she'll rest by herself . after all , she needs it if she's gonna have more sex than sylvia kristel . the film goes on for over an hour and a half , through stupidity after stupidity , moronic twist after moronic twist , and soon there's the little ironic ( ! ! ! ) ending . i know it's a completely different culture , and i'm quite familiar with the french and their cinema , but this is just bad . none of the characters are more intelligent than peter stormare in " fargo " ( a movie where stupid characters were backed up to make a point ) , and any action they do is pretty much just to get a hopeful chuckle from the audience . what's shocking is this was not only one of france's biggest hits , but it was nominated for a lot of cesars ( french equivalent of oscars ) . the writing and directing is really the big problem with it . josiane balasko does a good acting job with her role , but her little sex comedy isn't very humerous , entertaining , or even deep at all . even woody allen's not-very-good " a midsummer night's sex comedy " is intelligent , well-written , and possesses some depth . this is shallow , unfunny , and pretty annoying to watch . the film moves at the pace of a snail , and is damn-near painful to watch . thank god for the fast forward button . the acting , however , isn't bad at all . the actors do the best they can with the bad material , and victoria abril is pretty likable despite the script ( and the fact that she's stupid enough to try to divide herself over two people when she has kids ) . and alain chabat has some funny moments as the neurotic husband . but " french twist " is just pretty lame . it's not overly horrible , and has a couple very , very , very brief moments . but it's just a really crap film , and an example of an ill-advised distribution of a foreign film . 
cast : michael j . fox , gabrielle anwar , anthony higgins , michael tucker , dan hedaya , bob balaban ( who never appeared . . . ) director : barry sonnenfield screenplay : mark rosenthal , lawrence konner score : bruce broughton release : october 1 , 1993 i don't like movies that start off bad and end up that way , too . i don't like movies that present an audience with absolutely no redeeming values ( nothing to laugh at , or cry about , or feel excited about ) . i don't like movies that front as something that they're not . i don't like movies like this one . michael j . fox stars as douglas ireland , concierge at a ritzy hotel in new york . he doesn't take his work lightly--the man makes people feel useful , saves marriages , takes dogs for a walk , gives you tickets to any broadway show you want . and doug has a dream of creating his very own hotel , called the doug , or the river house . he just needs to make a big-time money man very happy in the mean time , so that he can close a deal . to do this , he must take good care of the man's younger mistress ( played by gabrielle anwar ) . the woman is beautiful , and doug has been after her for some time now , so he gladly accepts the job and does whatever it takes to make his dream a reality . well , doug falls in love with her ( big surprise , huh ? ) . the only problem is , he can't act on his feelings for risk of crushing his dream . ah , what's a man to do . . . ? i knew what would happen . in fact , i knew everything about this movie within the first ten minutes it played . for love or money is an exercise in just how predictable and utterly worthless a comedy--or  movie * , in general--can be . it isn't funny , or romantic , or engaging , or surprising , or original in any way . fox acts with some sort of smirk on his mug the whole time , and basically looks rather bored throughout the movie . the usually strong supporting " love interest " that should have backed him up--or , in this case , sufficed for him--is played by an enigmatic young actress named gabrielle anwar . we saw her briefly in scent of a woman , doing the tango with al pacino , but got nothing , no sort of impression , from her little screen time in the film . i guess for love or money came to her in the wake of the success of that movie , she read over the screen play , and said , " yeah , i should probably do this so i can work some more and survive in this business . " it's just too bad for her that the script , by two different people , has * no * luster about it whatsoever . and what about michael j . fox ? what's his problem ? i know he can be funny , i saw it in back to the future 1 , 2 , and 3 . i know he can be dramatic , i saw that in casualties of war . but lately , things just don't seem to be working out for him ( first life with mikey , and now this ? ) . his character of concierge here is pretty much a nice guy-- but that's it . he's extremely shallow in the movie , and isn't able to give his character the gravity it so desperately needs . i didn't want to give this movie a bad review--i hate doing that for * any * film . but the disappointing fact is : bad movies often are written , and cast , and filmed . for love or money should've stopped on the first level , been trashed , and then rewritten until it could make us care about it . what we have here is an excruciatingly unnecessary film . critical rating : ( 1/2 ) * rated pg-13 , for very mild profanity -- running time : 1 : 33m 
chill factor is a carbon copy of speed with one notable exception : instead of a speeding bus , we now have an ice cream truck . the truck is driven by arlo ( cuba gooding jr . ) and mason ( skeet ulrich ) , who have been instructed by a dying scientist to transport a deadly chemical weapon to a military base by the name of fort mcgruder . this particular weapon ( nicknamed `elvis' ) must be kept below a temperature of 50 degrees , or else the shockwave will goo-iffy everything in a mile radius . that would be pretty nasty . the power of elvis is revealed in the opening scene , as dr . richard long ( david paymer ) conducts a test on an isolated tropical island . long accidentally melts 18 soldiers and defoliates virtually the entire island , due to an enormously miscalculated safety distance . the commanding officer , general brynner ( peter firth ) , is sentenced to 10 years in prison for the murder of his troops . upon his release , the general is intent on tracking the good doctor down , snatching elvis , and selling the weapon to the highest international bidder . protecting the fate of the world is a drifting hamburger flipper ( ulrich ) and a feisty ice cream delivery man ( gooding jr . ) , who must elude brynner's men and get elvis to safety at fort mcgruder . all the while , of course , they must keep the weapon below 50 degrees . this proves to be tricky . among the wild adventures arlo and mason partake in is a trip down a tree-covered mountainside in a boat , and a fist fight on top of a moving vehicle . they also crack a few dozen witty retorts that we are supposed to find amusing . to put it simply , i'll use a clever pun : chill factor should be put on ice . director hugh johnson has mixed elements from speed , broken arrow and the lethal weapon series to create a lifelessly bland cocktail of a chase movie . when there is some occasional action , the audience seems oddly detached from it . perhaps that's because we've already waded through a pool of clichés and boring dialogue ; all material that's been used before , and with a lot more spice . take the villains , for example . they are typical stereotypes of every terrorist that has ever walked the silver screen . they speak lines that have been recycled profusely from one movie to the next , divulge important plot details while holding their enemies at gunpoint , and act in very predictable ways . the tag-team of gooding jr . and ulrich sounds much more exciting than it is . frankly , i'm not sure i can accept cuba as an ice cream man . i suppose it's better than him dressed like a giant hot dog , selling jumbo frankfurters on a street corner . gooding displays one single emotion in this movie , which is frequently on display in lines like `i'm gonna get on yo ass like last year's underwear ! ' and the incessant sputtering of `oh , sh * t ! ' this is virtually the same character he played in jerry maguire and as good as it gets . but where gooding was once an exciting actor , he now seems dull and endlessly monotonous . at least he's a bit more captivating than ulrich , who has all the film's worst dialogue , but does nothing noticeable to enliven his character . the supporting cast , which includes every personality you expect to pop up , is also wasted . to be fair , there are a few brief moments of serviceable action . and i did chuckle a few times . one example is when ulrich ( an employee at `darlene's diner' ) is at the counter when brynner walks through the door . `you own this place ? ' the general asks . `yeah , ' ulrich says . `they call me darlene . ' these little tidbits of humor are ( mainly ) welcome in this weak , disappointing wreckage of an action film . as a speed clone , it could have benefited from a lot more suspense and perhaps ( god forbid ) even some decent writing . sadly , i walked away from chill factor only wondering how much fun it could have been . 
directed by david cronenberg starring : jude law , jennifer jason leigh , don mckellar running time approximately 1hr 40minsthe movie starts with a rather se7en-ish opening sequence , rather cool and sets the mood for things to come . the story propels the audience into a neo-reality ; somewhat very close to conscious reality but laced with weird tinges of blue and red . existenz is actually the name of a new virtual-reality game . supposedly , vr games are highly popular as is considered a legal-drug in this neo-reality . ( leigh ) is the ultimate game creator and introduces her ultimate game-experience in the form of existenz . players are required to have bio-ports embedded in their spine , which plugs to a game-pod in order to enjoy the immersive experience . during a secretive beta-testing-cum-teaser meeting for this new game , an assassination attempt on * * * life occurs and she runs off with fellow bodyguard * * * ( law ) . * * * is more of a realists than anything else , afraid that he'll lose reality if he begin to play these games but * * * requires his help to immerse together with her into existenz to check if the program is still functioning properly after the assassination attempt . as they soon discover , they are transported between realities within existenz uncovering more than they initially expected . existenz has all the cronenberg-gore that is expected of him . even so , this film is no-where near his cult classics such as videodrome or scanners . not even half as suspenseful as the commercially successful the fly . existenz can probably be looked upon as his 90's version of videodrome , even so , it is a poor follow-up . while in most of his famed films , his penchant for gore always hit the right note with theme of the film and plot . in existenz , the gory sequences are no more attached to spirit of the film and seem to be an act of over-indulgence than anything else . jennifer jason leigh and jude law , both commendable actors , looked aloof and miss-directed throughout the entire film . the scripting and acting barely pulls the film out of the b-grade category . it was obvious that cronenberg worked on a really tight-budget and it seems that he handled that pretty well in the production design and values created for this film ( the opening sequence , though , probably formed a considerable portion of the budget ! ) which is actually quite good . existenz is too predictable and cliched in these times . 10 years ago , it would have been another classic for cronenberg . cronenberg fans however , ( those people who enjoy seeing friends getting queasy over mutilation on film ) should not give this film a miss as some form of appreciation can still be offered by you . 
directed by bob clark . cast : dan monahan , mark herrier , wyatt knight , roger wilson , kim cattrall , scott colomby , kaki hunter , nancy parsons , alex karras , susan clark . 1981 - 99 minutes . rated r ( for profanity , nudity , and sex ) . reviewed december 8 , 1998 . well , here's a distasteful , thoroughly amateurish item that , surprisingly , was actually a box-office hit at the time of its release . after just viewing the film for the first time , my primary question is how did anyone with an iq north of 35 enjoy this movie ? it is cheap , idiotic , unfunny , and not nearly as raunchy as i had heard it was . at least some smut would have livened things up a bit . " porky's , " tells the story ( if you can call it that ) of four clueless high school buddies , pee wee ( dan monahan ) , billy ( mark herrier ) , tommy ( wyatt knight ) , and mickey ( roger wilson ) , whom desperately want to get laid . women , for the most part , are a mystery to them ( and in this movie , they are to the audience , as well , since all of them are written and acted as if they are aliens from a different planet ) . their plan is sidetracked , however , when they venture out to a smarmy strip bar named porky's , which they are able to get into using fake id's . after they pay the manager one-hundred bucks for three hookers , they are played a trick on and find themselves being dumped into the swamp below the building . for these four teenage guys , this means war on porky's . " porky's , " ultimately manages to fail on almost every possible level . as a teenage sex-romp , it is not wild or amusing enough . as a comedy , all of the jokes are predictable and fall flat . as a look back at the 1950's , it is something , i suspect , most people from that era would want to bury deep in a grave . and as a revenge movie , it is a crushing bore . one of the most offensive things about , " porky's , " is how jaw-droppingly inaccurate the film is about teenagers . the four main characters are not even attempted to be developed as characters , and we learn very little about them , except that they are horny and would probably feel more comfortable in a preschool . that sure is revealing information . the female characters fare even worse under the inaudacious screenplay and direction by bob clark . the women are all treated as objects or comedy props , rather than real people . for example , the two gym teachers , mrs . balbricker ( nancy parsons ) and honeywell ( kim cattrall ) , only have one purpose , and that is to be made fun of . mrs . balbricker is a gruff , no-holds-barred , overwight woman who will not stand for any foolishness , and , in one particularly embarrassing scene for all involved , honeywell has sex with a coach and barks like a dog . there is no way to tell if parsons or cattrall are servicable actresses ( even though i have the suspicion they are not ) , but one thing is for sure : they are asked to do things in this film that are not at all funny , only humiliating . to prove how out-of-touch this so-called comedy is , compare it to other more serious 80's films about teenagers , and it looks even worse in comaprison . any of the john hughes pictures , such as 1984's " sixteen candles , " or , 1985's " the breakfast club , " put , " porky's , " at an even greater shame . those films actually dealt with serious teen matters , but remained a great deal funnier , thanks to their bright and truthful writing . and heck , if , " porky's , " wanted to be a teenage sex movie , i'd take 1982's " fast times at ridgemont high , " or 1982's " the last american virgin , " over this any day of the week . director bob clark is not a bad director . two years after he made , " porky's , " he directed the nostalgic holiday classic , " a christmas story . " i would forgive him for this misfire , in fact , if it wasn't for the fact that he also wrote the screenplay . just the thought that someone would actually sit down to write such a piece of garbage , and think that it was actually a film worth releasing unto the unsuspecting world , is actually a whole lot funnier than anything in , " porky's . " - copyright 1999 by dustin putman http : //hometown . aol . com/filmfan16/index . html 
cast : alex d . linz , olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , rya kihlstedt , haviland morris , marian seldes , scarlett johansson , seth smith , kevin kilner director : raja gosnell producers : john hughes and hilton green screenplay : john hughes cinematography : julio macat music : nick glennie-smith u . s . distributor : twentieth century fox talk about beating a dead horse ! when home alone was released in 1990 , it was a breath of fresh air , and the final box office tally indicated how much audiences appreciated a genuinely-funny family film . the unexpectedly high gross guaranteed a sequel , so , two years later , we were subjected to home alone 2 , which might as well have been called clone alone for all of the originality it exhibited . for john hughes , two home alone movies weren't enough – he began recycling the same kinds of villains and situations in almost every movie he was involved with , including a pathetic box office bomb called baby's day out , last year's live-action 101 dalmatians , and this year's flubber . now , inexplicably , hughes has exhumed not only these worn-out plot elements , but the " home alone " name as well . the result – 1997's worst sequel ( edging out speed 2 and batman and robin ) , home alone 3 . by changing the characters , hughes ( who wrote and co-produced the film ) , along with his co-conspirator , director raja gosnell , has attempted to inject new life into a series that is way past the point of cardiac arrest . the new kid , alex pruitt , is played by alex d . linz ( one fine day ) , and the only thing he has going for him is terminal cuteness . he's not half as interesting as macaulay culkin once was . the villains , pale copies of joe pesci and daniel stern , are even less engaging than the pair of idiots in flubber . in home alone 3 , there are four of them ( olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , and rya kihlstedt ) , but all that means is an opportunity for twice as many pratfalls . this time , the kid isn't left home alone because his parents have gone on a trip . instead , he has developed a bad case of chicken pox , so he can't go to school . his dad ( kevin kilner ) is away on business and his mom ( haviland morris ) has to run errands , so , for the most part , he's all by himself during the day . through a series of coincidences too irritating to relate , a top secret u . s . air force integrated circuit comes into his possession . it's wanted by a gang of four international crooks who intend to break into alex's home to retrieve it . the eight- year old , who is wise beyond his years , booby traps the house with all sorts of rube goldberg-type devices designed to humiliate and incapacitate the villains . the movie's climax takes place during a raging snowstorm – only none of the falling flakes looks remotely believable . previously , the most counterfeit-looking snow effects i can remember were in star trek iii . these are far worse . in fact , the production values are so shoddy that there are some scenes in the midst of this near-blizzard when a shining sun can be seen . if it's a wonderful life could generate real- looking snow back in the 1940s , why can't home alone 3 , which has a significantly larger budget and '90s technology at its disposal ? there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriateness of live-action cartoon violence for young children . home alone 3 will add fuel to the fire . it's one thing to see wyle e . coyote flattened by a 10 ton acme weight , but quite another to watch a running lawn mower fall on lenny von dohlen . adults and even older children will recognize that this is obviously fake and intended to be humorous , but what about five and six-year olds ? the level of violence in home alone 3 is extreme – many of alex's schemes are nasty enough to kill . but , because this is a " family film , " no one dies , despite being electrocuted , falling thirty feet , and getting smacked on the head by a barbell . not only is home alone 3 unnecessary , but it's offensive . it's an exercise in tediousness , and there isn't a genuine laugh to be found from the beginning to the end ( unless , by some strange quirk of fate , you have missed every 1990s movie associated with john hughes , and thus haven't seen this stuff before ) . i can't imagine anyone with a reasonable attention span being more than momentarily distracted by this pointless adventure . maybe that's why the only ones laughing at the screening i attended were still in their thumb-sucking years . 
just when you thought it was safe to venture back into the bayou , along comes the return of swamp thing , part monster movie , part parody , wholly ( if not intentionally ) awful . not since king kong and godzilla first slugged it out atop mount fuji has there been a more laughable -- or more ludicrous -- man-in-a-monster-suit movie . the first film of the summer season to be based on a character from a d . c . comic , the return of swamp thing plays it strictly for laughs . in wes craven's original 1983 horror flick , swamp thing was portrayed as a sad , tormented creature , the hideous result of research gone awry . in this , its purported sequel , swamp thing has been transformed into a superhero , ridding the swamp of botched genetic experiments and rushing to the aid of damsels in distress . one such damsel is the exquisitely untalented heather locklear . locklear , who should stick to making health spa ads , is cast as abby arcane , stepdaughter of scientist-gone-mad anton arcane ( played once again by louis jourdan in the scenery-chewing role of the century ) . abby visits her creepy stepfather in his heavily guarded louisiana mansion in order to discover what really happened to her mother all those many moons ago . arcane isn't telling , but somehow you get the feeling that she didn't pass away under normal circumstances ! realizing that abby's rare blood type holds the key to his fountain-of-youth elixir , arcane and his beautiful henchwoman dr . lana zurrell ( played with campy panache by sarah douglas ) immediately have diabolical designs on the ditzy blonde , family ties or no family ties . from the opening scene , we learn that abby has a very special relationship with plants . not only does she call her succulents down-to-earth names like " jimmy " and " mary , " but she holds entire , one-sided conversations with them . this is , i guess , just so we know that , come the time when she and swamp thing inevitably meet , she's going to be able to relate to him , woman to vegetable . sure enough , this encounter takes place when swamp thing rescues abby from a pair of lecherous moonshiners . barely batting a false eyelash at this living lump of lichen , abby immediately senses the " soul of a wonderful human being " beneath that mossy exterior . extraordinary as it might seem , it's love at first sight . to pad out its ninety-minute length , the film introduces a stereotypically pudgy , twinkie-eating white kid and his precocious black pal , who are in the movie to try and photograph the fibroid avenger for commercial gain . in actual fact , they're in the film to be laughed at , even though they do get to say some real neat lines like " swamp thing's kicking some butt ! " they also get to give the leafy fellow complimentary thumbs up from time to time , just so we know who the good guy is . everybody in the film overacts like crazy , and these two obnoxious youngsters are no exception . it's hard to dislike a film as good-natured as this one is , especially in an industry rife with gratuitous sex and violence . sure , the film does have its explosive moments ( courtesy the five-and-dime " special " effects ) , but ne'er a drop of blood is spilled throughout . and there are ample opportunities for nudity -- locklear and douglas weren't employed solely for their acting abilities -- but none ensue . abby and her new found beau do get to express their love for each other , but it's tastefully done , if in a slightly silly manner ( as is everything else in the film ) . from the very beginning you realize that this is not a film to be taken seriously . though harmless enough , it does tend to be rather smug and a little too cute for its own good , and you end up laughing at the film rather than with it . if it weren't so badly acted , so deliberately self-mocking all around , then it might have made for better entertainment . as it is , the return of swamp thing remains strictly for the grade z crowd . the only thought that appears to have gone into the making of this movie is that the producers decided not to call it swamp thing 2 . | directed by : jim wynorski david n . butterworth - university of pa | | rating ( l . maltin ) :  internet : butterworth@a1 . mscf . upenn . edu | 
the word to describe sharon stone is " wonder " . not that she _is_ a wonder , but rather that i wonder how she can be so inconsistent . she has a dynamic screen presence in " basic instinct " , turns in a surprisingly fine acting job in " casino " , but possesses neither of those here . stone teams up with private school headmaster's wife isabelle adjani to kill adjani's thoroughly unlikable husband ( chazz palminteri ) . in a comedy of errors and unexpected twists straight out of hitchcock ( as in `homage to' [read " steal from " ] ) , it turns out that someone saw them or he's not dead or maybe . . . kathy bates turns in a credible , if unspectacular , performance as an investigative police detective . her character is a bit dull but realistic , although her actions at the end are puzzling . adjani is more than satisfactory as the timid beaten spouse driven to desperation . it's stone that is a disappointment among the actors . how can she be the epitome of a femme fatale in previous films and come off as a blank in this one ? costumed in skin-tight clothes and looking down her nose at everyone , she is someone you would want to avoid because she is boring , not enticingly dangerous . even the threat ( or promise ? ) of a lesbian relationship between the conspirators is only half played out . on the positive side , there are enough unexpected plot developments to keep your interest alive . that is if you can put up with stone's cardboard cut-out character and scenes directly lifted from hitch's movies . [this appeared in the 3/28/96 " bloomington voice " , bloomington , indiana . michael redman can be contacted at redman@bvoice . com] -- mailto : redman@bvoice . com this week's film review at http : //www . bvoice . com/ film reviews archive at http : //us . imdb . com/m/reviews_by ? michael%20redman 
whenever u . s . government starts meddling into other countries' affairs , under the pretext of supporting human rights or preventing political , religious or ethnic persecution , the other side is ready to use mantra that says " look who's talking ! what have you done to the indians ? " however , even the americans themselves are ready to use that dark chapter of their own national history when it suits their purposes . hollywood is just another example , with its revisionist westerns , made in early 1990s . those movies tried to exploit the emerging wave of political correctness , coinciding with the 500th anniversary of columbus' discovery of america . one of such examples is geronimo : an american legend , 1993 western directed by walter hill , film that deals with one of the last conflicts between american natives and white settlers . the hero of the film is geronimo ( played by wes studi ) , leader of apaches , fierce warrior tribe that used to give hard time to white settlers during the second half of 19th century . when the movie begins , in 1885 , geronimo and his apaches made peace with u . s . government and try to live peacefully in arizona reservation . however , broken promises , injustice and violence against his people would make geronimo restless . with not more 30 or so of his followers , he escapes reservation and begins guerrilla campaign . general crook ( gene hackman ) , commander of u . s . army forces , respects geronimo and knows that even his 5 , 000 force isn't enough to catch geronimo in the great spaces of the american southwest . instead , he turns to people who are more experienced with apaches - lt . charles gatewood ( jason patric ) and indian hunter al sieber ( robert duvall ) . together with young lt . britton davis ( matt damon ) they would begin mission aimed at capturing geronimo . geronimo : an american legend , like many movies made under the shadow of political correctness , try to tell the tale about oppressed minorities , but instead the real subject is the bad conscience of the oppressors . so , the story about geronimo is told from the perspective of his enemies . almost all of them happen to be his greatest admirers and use every opportunity to express how sorry they feel for having to fight him and his people . although such elements of john millius' screenplay do indeed have some basis in history , they harm the story of geronimo . to be honest , walter hill does try to make geronimo the real hero of the film , but the movie segments that deal with the plight of apaches and the uprising are given too little time . instead , they turn out to be nothing more than the back story for rather uninteresting adventure story of gatewood and his band . to make even worse , hill has some real problems with pacing and style , and in the end we have impression that we are watching two films badly edited into one - story about geronimo and story about his pursuers . the movie should have been better if it turned to geronimo's life before and after his last uprising , in many ways more interesting than the story about gatewood . the difference between those segments could be observed through the different quality of acting . wes studi , cherokee actor who was so impressive as magua in the last of the mohicans , was perfect choice for geronimo , not only because he resembles geronimo , but because he induces a lot of passion in his role . contrary to him , we have disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles of his white enemies . while this could be expected from someone like jason patric , it is shame when we have veterans like gene hackman or robert duvall . even hill's directing is bellow expectations - battle scenes are too short and , like in many of his late films , force viewers to ask what had happened to the great action director of 1970s . even his old associate , music composer ry cooder , disappoints , with the score that shifts between indian motives and classic . on the other hand , photography by lloyd ahern ii , with the use of red lenses , gives somewhat dreamy atmosphere , ideal for this movie that was supposed to be melancholic epic . all in all , compared with some of the hollywood's examples of political correctness , this film isn't so bad , but we are left with the unpleasant impression that it could have been better . 
dream with the fishes ( sony pictures classics - 1997 ) starring david arquette , brad hunt , kathryn erbe , cathy moriarty screenplay by finn taylor produced by johnny wow , mitchell stein directed by finn taylor running time : 97 minutes note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . be forewarned . -------------------------------------------------------------it's rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor's first feature film , dream with the fishes , when the plodding , tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup . any hopeful expectations , however , are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched-buddy movie which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film's latter half . the film's central characters are terry ( david arquette ) , a depressed , lonely voyeur who claims to be despondent since the death of his wife in an automobile accident , and nick ( brad hunt ) , a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill . nick lives in the apartment building across from terry , who spies on the trysts between nick and girlfriend liz ( kathryn erbe ) with his trusty set of binoculars , but the two young men first formally meet at the bay bridge where a half-drunk terry precariously teeters upon the edge , unconvincingly vowing suicide . nick casually asks for terry's wristwatch , and eventually cons terry into a trade - the watch for a bottle of pills . of course , terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects , and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch . learning of nick's condition ( he only has a handful of weeks left ) , terry's compassion kicks in , and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement - terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick's lifelong fantasies , and nick will fulfill terry's death wish by killing him . this is a promising premise , and mr . taylor's film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point , but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters ( terry is a repessed , mournful character who wants to die , while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying but wants to live ) and takes the easy route out by turning dream with the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage in a series of generally dull exploits , and where the straight-laced character learns to enjoy and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character . this is by-the-numbers plotting , buddy movie/road movie redux . however , dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline , but by the characters which carry the story - it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic , if not likeable . unfortunately , that is not the case here , where both of the film's leading characters are thorougly uninteresting and annoying , giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights , and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits . far from a romp , this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt , and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the two men begin to bond . mr . taylor's dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes - while attempting to capture a quirky and clever tone , it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived ( witness such lines as " you should have asked something more interesting , like 'do you enjoy the pain ? ' - see , that's provocative , leaves room for further questions . " ) the film enjoys a few inspired moments - the urn scene , a session of nude bowling , the policeman joining in on terry and nick's acid trip - but unfortunatetely these instances are few and far between , and for the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes . this occurs particularly often during the film's opening sequence - as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital , i'm realising that this is * intended * to be funny , although nary a smile crept upon my lips - which is probably due to the obvious fact that it's painfully clear to the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts , sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick's scheme of tricking him ; this is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes . the entire sequence is , then , clearly an exercise for character exposition , with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability . among the cast , coming off best is david arquette , the current master in the portrayal of meek , squirming , stammering fresh-faced characters - he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang's swimming with sharks - who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry . mr . taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique , where the portions of the film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy and heavily saturated , as opposed to a bright , crisp look for the smalltown scenes . the charge of dream with the fishes's protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me ; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters , and indeed , in many cases have i been in the minority , supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult , audience-unfriendly nature of their characters . for dream with the fishes , though , i did find myself on the flip side of coin , often hoping that the film would quickly conclude , and that the nick character would just hurry up and die . 
director : che-kirk wong || screenplay : ben ramsey || stars : mark wahlberg ( melvin smiley ) , lou diamond phillips ( cisco ) , christina applegate ( pam schulman ) , avery brooks ( paris ) , bokeem woodbine ( crunch ) , lela rochon ( chantel ) , china chow ( keiko nishi ) , sab shimono ( jiro nishi ) , robin dunne ( gump ) || mpaa rating : r there are scenes in " the big hit " that are so awful , they simply defy description . the movie is infected with the same kind of blunderheaded idiocy and misplaced confidence that made " last action hero " ( 1993 ) such a chore to sit through . presumably , " the big hit " is an action-comedy , a difficult but not impossible genre to pull off . movies of this sort require a fine balance and careful tone , and the comedy is usually meant to work as catharsis for the violence . " lethal weapon 2 " ( 1989 ) is a perfect example of an action thriller that was also very , very funny . unfortunately , in " the big hit , " it seems that comedy is the main motive , and the violence is only intended to punctuate the laughs . unfortunately , there are no laughs . the movie resembles some of the goofy , throwaway ridiculousness of early jackie chan films , but it doesn't benefit from chan's incredible stunts and goofy , charismatic presence . instead , we are left with a lot of digital effects and mark wahlberg , who must have considered himself invincible after his critically-acclaimed performance in last year's " boogie nights . " however , if he wants to maintain a decent career , he had better start selecting his projects more carefully - movies like this are a sure-fire recipe for a long career in the straight-to-video market . wahlberg plays melvin smiley , an amiable guy who also happens to be a professional hitman ( see " grosse pointe blank " for the same character , much better developed ) . the movie wants us to think , " gee how clever and ironic - a guy who can kill without any moral implications , and yet he can't stand for anyone not to like him . " the fact is , melvin is so desperate to keep people from not liking him , that he puts up with both an obnoxious fiancee ( christina applegate , with a horrendous new york accent ) and an abusive girlfriend ( lela rochon ) who is only using him for his money . his constant bending over backwards to please people makes him a complete patsy at best , and a thoroughly unbelievable character at worst . melvin is employed exclusively by a crime boss named paris ( avery brooks ) as part of a team of hitmen , which also includes cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) and crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) . one day , melvin agrees to do some moonlighting with cisco by kidnapping the teenage daughter of a rich japanese mogul named jiro nishi ( sab shimono ) for a million dollar ransom . however , not only has jiro nishi lost all his money producing a big hollywood movie ( inside joke , get it ? ) , but his kidnapped daughter , keiko ( china chow ) , also happens to be paris' goddaughter . so , when paris finds out she's been kidnapped , he takes it personally and becomes determined to find out who did it . not knowing the cisco is actually behind the whole scheme , paris puts him in charge of rooting out the kidnapper . of course cisco blames the whole thing on poor , innocent melvin . along the way , there are several obligatory gunfights , explosions , and car chases , plus a literal cliffhanger inspired by " jurassic park , " and a completely unconvincing romance between melvin and keiko ( who looks like she's barely pushing fifteen ) . what the movie passes off as humor resorts to thoroughly unfunny jokes about overweight jewish mothers , hara-kiri , drinking problems , leaking body bags , and a running gag about how crunch has recently discovered the pleasures of masturbation , and now spends all his time doing hand exercises . not to mention the pimply video store clerk who is always calling melvin and screeching about how he needs to return his copy of " king kong lives , " which is two weeks overdue . this mess of a movie was helmed by che-kirk wong , the latest hong kong director imported by john woo ( " face/off " ) , who also served as executive producer . woo needs to stop acting as a conduit for other directors , and start making more of his own films . wong , who directed such films as " rock'n'roll cop " back in hong kong , is completely tone deaf when it comes to comedy . maybe jokes about vexatious video clerks and vomiting on other people are funny across the ocean , but they're not here , at least in the manner wong handles them . many of the problems can be traced back to the script , which was penned by obvious freshman writer ben ramsey . in addition to his vague characterizations and uninspired action sequences , ramsey's script assaults the audience with his attempts to copy the vulgar , poetic rhythms of tarantino or mamet-style dialogue . what he comes out with is just a lot of annoying blather , most of which spews from the lips of lou diamond phillips ( whose favorite phrase is " it's all love " ) and robin dunne , who plays cisco's stuttering , black-wannabe assistant . the irritation factor of phillips and dunne combined is almost off the scale , which can pretty much describe the film as a whole . 
edward burns tackles his third picture with no looking back , and like his previous two , it is a working-class relationship picture . however , unlike his previous work , the film dwells on a more personal story , and with a female protagonist . and in no looking back , he stumbles , making a slow , boring film without the spark that enlivened his previous work . claudia ( lauren holly ) is a small town waitress who is feeling stifled by her life . she's at a turning point in her life , and feels as if she's going nowhere . her boyfriend , michael ( jon bon jovi ) , is broke and in a dead end job . if she were to marry him , she'd never get a chance to escape this town . enter charlie ( edward burns ) , claudia's old flame . he skipped town several years before , without any explanations . . . even for claudia . he has come back to town to see her , and suddenly she is torn . should she stay with stable michael , and never escape her hometown . . . or should she ignore her instincts and fall for charlie again . part of the answer lies in the character of her mother ( blythe danner ) , who fell for the wrong man . . . and has spent her life pining for claudia's father to return . now it seems that claudia is about to make the same mistakes . at only a little past ninety minutes , no looking back is rather short for its genre . unfortunately , it seems much much longer . the storyline is simple and uninspired , and there's a lack of energy to the whole proceedings , which makes the entire drama rather tedious . edward burns makes a misstep by casting himself in the crucial role as the egomaniacal old flame . there's no one to restrain his ego , which reigns unchecked . he walks into the room and lauren holly swoons . . . yeah , right . lauren holly does what she can with her central character . but we never understand why her character makes such pathetically bad decisions . . . and we never really care . bon jovi is the only sympathetic character in the whole movie . his acting talents are much greater than they might seem , but he is given a mostly bland and ineffective role to work with . there's not much to recommend in no looking back . it's not that the film is bad . . . it's simply boring . there's no zest in any aspect of the film , and no reason to spend ninety minutes watching it . 
directed by neil jordan . cast : eomann owens , stephen rea , fiona shaw , alan boyle , andrew fullerton , aisling o'sullivan , sinead o'connor , ian hart , milo o'shea . 1998 - 111 minutes . rated r ( for violence , gore , and profanity ) . reviewed november 15 , 1998 . i have always been a fan of director neil jordan , from his early work , such as 1984's " the company of wolves , " to 1992's " the crying game , " and 1994's " interview with a vampire . " his latest film , " the butcher boy , " is a return to his roots in ireland , but unfortunately , it is not a successful homecoming . told through the eyes of a 12-year-old irish boy , francis ( newcomer eomann owens ) , this peculiar film follows him as we learn a little about his decidedly unstable life . his father ( stephen rea ) is an indifferent alcoholic , his mother ( fiona shaw ) is mentally ill and always in and out of hospitals , and francis himself delights in terrorizing the mother of one of his friends after he is forbidden to see him anymore . francis is the type of boy who always has a lot to say , but mostly fluctuates between sarcasm and frightening honesty , and it quickly becomes apparent that he may very well be a little psychotic , even capable of brutal murder . the premise of , " the butcher boy , " is one that could have very well been turned into a thought-provoking , disturbing motion picture , but somehow nothing works . francis is in almost every scene , but we learn very little about him , as if the film was distancing itself away from him when , i suspect , we were actually supposed to sympathize with him . this is definately not young owens fault , however , because he gives a brilliantly accurate performance , and is able to also seem menacing as well . the fact that we don't get close to his character is because of the sloppy screenplay . the supporting characters are no help , though . rea is wasted , and has practically no scenes where he actually talks to his son , or to anyone else for that matter . he usually seems to just be sitting watching the television throughout . shaw has a little bit more to work with , since she has one touching scene in which she talks to francis in a time of despair , but is out of the picture just as we are beginning to know her . and singer sinead o'connor appears rather effectively as the virgin mary who occasionally gives francis advice . the pacing is all off in , " the butcher boy . " although the story could have been dynamite , it moves at a deadeningly slow rate , and i found my mind wandering every once in a while . it is also very episodic , because the developments in the story fly by with no satisfying payoffs . at one point , francis is sent away to a juvenile prison , and an odd , possibly sexual relationship begins to develop between a priest and himself , but nothing comes of it . i'd rather think of , " the butcher boy , " as a brief diversion for director jordan , rather than a total misfire . he has already proven to be a strong director , but he lucked out with this latest film . what could have been a courageous , unsettling character study of an emotionally disturbed young boy , only manages to be an ineffective , uninvolivng bore . - copyright 1999 by dustin putman http : //hometown . aol . com/filmfan16/index . html 
spice world ( 1998 ) reviewed by chuck dowling copyright 1998 - the jacksonville film journal url : http : //users . southeast . net/~chuckd21/ cast : the spice girls , richard e . grant , roger moore , george wendt , mark mckenney , bob hoskins , meat loaf , elvis costello written by : kim fuller directed by : bob spiers running time : 93 minutes my rating :  spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls . sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while . actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls . but overall , who cares ? not me . if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood . in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews . amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money . and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " . i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ? the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film . by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " . wow , they got idea credit ! i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . . giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! " the supporting cast fares well . roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch . mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) . one question though : george wendt ? you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people . if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards . and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick . oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film . well , not the two who sat directly behind me . they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again . maybe there is hope for humanity after all . [pg] the jacksonville film journal -- film reviews by chuck dowling url :  http : //users . southeast . net/~chuckd21/   email :  chuckd21@leading . net   © 1995-1998 of the jacksonville film journal .   no reviews may be reprinted without permission . 
hey , i've got a great idea for a movie ! ok , here it is : we'll get tim allen to pull angry faces for about two hours or so ! what's that ? sounds too boring ? ok , how about this then : we still have tim allen pull faces for about two hours , but half of them are angry looks and half of them are " i'm in pain ! " looks ! what's that ? that still doesn't sound funny to you ? how about if we through in some " ewwwww ! " looks ? still not funny ? if you answered " no , that doesn't sound funny " , then ( ding ding ding ! ) you're absolutely correct ! for richer or poorer is a moronic farce about a rich married couple ( played by tim allen and kirstie alley ) who seek refuge in an amish community after their bumbling accountant ( wayne knight , best know as newman on tv's " seinfeld " ) gets them in trouble for tax evasion . what ensues is a badly scripted and horribly directed 114 minutes of cinema hell . what makes this all wrong is that nobody seems to have what the film needs . . . namely , talent ! backing up , the married couple is brad and caroline sexton ( allen and alley ) , a popular snobby duo who seem totally in love to everyone else , but in reality are on the brink of divorce . just as their marriage seems to be hanging from it's final thread , brad discovers that his accountant , bob lachman ( knight ) , has been engaging in illegitimate deals in the sexton's names . the irs catches on , but since everything points back to the sexton's and not lachman , there is nothing much to do . . . except run away and join an amish community . first time screenwriters jana howington and steve lukanic give us a couple of chuckle-out-loud moments , and even some decent laughs here and * way * over there , but there is so much to cringe at in this horribly made film that you'll likely miss the laughs while regurgitating popcorn . alley is absolutely unwatchable , and the chemistry between her and allen is about as believable as my chemistry homework from tenth grade ( which , i inform you , was total b . s . ) . allen and alley are in no way convincing as tycoons , nor are they very convincing as an amish couple ! this entire movie is one bad ill-conceived notion that should have been curtailed from the very beginning ! the amish in this movie are also flimsy and unconvincing . it's such a trite , stereotypical script that i imagine the actors that were cast ( noticing that they're all predominantly tv figures ) were probably the only ones they could get ! bryan spicer's directing doesn't help one bit , either . in fact , listing spicer's filmography ( which includes the first " power rangers " movie and the big screen adaption of mchale's navy ) is more of an insult than a résumé ! now that i've pretty much run for richer or poorer into the ground , i will let you in on the best thing about it . it bumped seven films up a notch on my " worst of " 1997 movie list . that's right , thanks to this film ranking at number 3 for the year's worst , six films are now not seemingly as bad , and a smile like yours , previously inhabiting the number ten spot , now doesn't have to suffer the ridicule of making my bottom ten list . if you look at it in that respect , for richer or poorer will end up making someone happy after all ! 
starring adam sandler , fairuza balk , kathy bates , henry winkler , jerry reed , blake clark and larry gilliard , jr . it's amazing how a comedian can have the some of the funniest stand-up around but completely fall flat in the movies . take adam sandler . on the basis of his first two cds ( " they're all gonna laugh at you ! " and " what the hell happened to me ? " ) , he's the best thing to hit comedy since robin williams . but when you put him in front of a camera , it just isn't the same . i kind of enjoyed happy gilmore and thought that it warranted a marginal recommendation , but his latest film , the waterboy is about as funny as a root canal . seriously , i'm willing to wager than there were more laughs in saving private ryan than there are here . in fact , i found this movie to be more depressing than comedic . the first half hour generated not one smile in me , with it's scenes of emotional abuse towards adam's character of bobby boucher not only by the cruel football players , but also by his very disturbed mother ( kathy bates - what is the world coming to ? ) . granted , after the film gets rolling , there are a few mild chuckles throughout ( i'm even willing to admit that it actually had me laughing once or twice ) , but not nearly enough to sustain the waterboy for it's nearly hour and a half running time . you're all familiar with the plot because you've seen it at least a million times before ; everyone picks on the hero until he shows a hidden talent and leads the underdog team to victory over the champions , in the process not only winning the respect of his teammates but also getting the woman he loves . and believe me , i'm not giving anything away by saying that sandler's team wins . if you would actually feel any degree of suspense watching this movie , then god be with you . the only things that keep this bomb from getting the big banana are the winning performances from henry winkler as the insecure coach and the severely underrated fairuza balk as bobby's love interest . i mean , they should be lending their talents to some loftier purpose , but they do extremely well with what they are given here . kudos to both of them . my advice to adam is to try and follow in the footsteps of veteran comedians like williams and steve martin , who made a very smooth and successful transition from stage to screen . rely more on actual comedy rather than strange voices and rude noises to make people laugh . or maybe even show what dramatic talent he might have , like jim carrey did with the recent truman show . with the obvious and considerable talent that he possesses , he just can't keep going on like this . 
universal soldier : the return ( m ) . ( columbia tristar ) director : mic rodgers stars : jean-claude van damme , michael jai white , bill goldberg , daniel von bargen , kiana tom , justin lazard . jean-claude van damme reprises his character of luc devereaux , the regenerated soldier , for this risible second sequel to 1992's violent futuristic thriller universal soldier . van damme was absent from the dire 1998 sequel universal soldier ii brothers in arms , in which his character was played by another performer . that film disappeared straight to video in this country . van damme's return doesn't necessarily herald an improvement in quality , but it does ensure that universal soldier : the return gains a brief cinema release before disappearing into the same video wilderness that has claimed most of his recent lacklustre efforts . with the end of the cold war , the military is drastically reducing its budget . the first cutbacks affect the futuristic unisol project , in which dead soldiers are regenerated and turned into virtually indestructible cyborgs . but seth , the super-intelligent computer responsible for much of the unisol project , rebels against the government's plans , and seizes control of the soldiers . seth manages to assume human form ( martial arts star michael jai white ) and lead his invincible troops as they take over the top secret complex that houses the unisol project . as a stand-off develops between the regular army and the cyborgs it falls to devereaux to try and stop seth's plans . mic rodgers , a former stunt co-ordinator who has worked on films including titanic and lethal weapon 4 , makes his directorial debut here . he handles the action and pyrotechnics effectively enough , but he lacks the flair and visual style of original creators roland emmerich and dean devlin . universal soldier the return lacks the energy and spectacularly staged action sequences of the original . this highly unlikely scenario uses the original provocative theme purely as an excuse for lots of testosterone-fuelled action , loud explosions , gratuitous mayhem , formulaic and mindless carnage . whereas the original managed to pit van damme against fellow action star dolph lundgren , the best this dire sequel can do is pit our uncharismatic muscle bound hero against bill goldberg , the popular wrestler , whose woeful , one-dimensional performance takes the craft of screen acting to a new low . universal soldier the return is a far cry from van damme's superior action thrillers like time cop and sudden death , and further demonstrates just how far his career has fallen . the scene in which his character complains that he doesn't want to be stereotyped resonates with an unintentional irony . this is one return that is both unnecessary and unwelcome . 
cast : nicolas cage , giovanni ribisi , angelina jolie , delroy lindo , will patton , robert duvall , christopher eccleston writer : scott rosenberg . director : dominic sena . review by scott hunt movie hunt : http : //netdirect . net/~hunt/index . html the stereotypical american male has an undeniable fetishistic love of sports cars . producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon that attraction with a movie so loaded with testosterone and laced titillatingly with shot after frenetic shot of powerful muscle cars , sleek foreign road huggers and iconic speed machines that many males will leave the theater in an orgasmic haze . gone is 60 seconds is an orgy of maleness gone horribly awry . cage is legendary retired car thief , memphis raines ( don't you love cute movie names ) , who must call upon his time worn skills to save his thick-headed brother ( ribisi ) from being killed . seems a murderous crime boss ( eccleston ) with a fetish for wood ( insert your own joke ) hired brother kip to steal a ridiculous amount of expensive , exotic autos . fifty cars , to be exact . poor kip screws the pooch and bungles the job badly . if the cars aren't delivered in three days , bossman has a casket carved out just for kip . literally . if only someone could save him . hmmmm . . wonder what memphis is doing ? in order to give the film some emotional heft , there are several subplots designed to tug at our heartstrings or give us the thrill of . . . yawn , excuse me , dramatic tension . shadowing memphis is an old law enforcement foe ( lindo ) who's looking to send memphis away . will he catch him ? there's old flame sway ( jolie ) , who had her heart broken by memphis years ago . will they get back together ? shortsighted , thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother , yet resents him for moving away from the family . will they reconnect ? raines old mentor ( duvall ) has long since left the life of crime . will memphis get him finally caught as he pulls him back into the life , one more time ? can you answer all these questions correctly in 2 seconds without seeing the film first ? i'll bet you can . following the opening credits , which fill you in on the accomplishments of the raines family through a montage of old photos , we was taken full throttle into the splendor that is memphis . he's first shown living the good life teaching young children to drive go-carts . in a later scene , as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he has the stolen car situation under control , all the while making breakfast , a metaphor is made of shakespearean proportions . just as a pan of grease flares up with kip clueless to how to quell it , big brother memphis calmly and efficiently throws some salt on it . looks like everything might turn out alright after all . you know this because the music swells on the crest of violins . that's about as strong as the characterization gets , which is a shame . bruckheimer has a real talent for loading his movies with an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand . monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose idea of sex revolves around cars and memphis . or maybe it's just the cars . duvall trots out his ornery , but sweet old codger outfit . i'm sure he's still laughing at taking a paycheck for this one . lindo projects a warm hearted , but tightly focused detective that almost transcends the material . the biggest waste of resources is vinnie jones , who plays a mute accomplice of memphis . without saying a word , he is easily the most charismatic person in the movie . like a blast of nitrous oxide , he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal . too bad his minutes onscreen are so few . somehow , bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high concept , poorly written movies , gussies up the film with lots of gold hues and pleasingly stylized action and they sell like proverbial hotcakes . every time something clever happens it's counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks you back into realizing you're watching a movie . there's a innovative usage of black lighting that goes from being a novelty to a part of the plot . it's counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attempt at humor by having an asian american repeatedly failing a driver's test . imagine the yuks . there's a segment where one of the thieves shows another his cool fake fingerprint trick . it's countered by the lame semi-subplot of a car being stolen with a bunch of heroin in the trunk . the ramifications are never explored . then there's the ridiculousness of the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars . not only is it stupid , but it's against the law . this is a movie made of pretty , but tepid car chases strung together by just enough character interaction to move the plot along . gone in 60 seconds aptly describes how long it'll take for this marginally entertaining , but empty film to leave your memory . get your private , free e-mail from msn hotmail at http : //www . hotmail . com 
directed by joe johnston . screenplay by peter buchman , alexander payne , and jim taylor , based on characters created by michael crichton . starring sam neill , william h macy , tea leoni . running time : 94 minutes . rated aa by the mfcb . reviewed on august 15th , 2001 . synopsis : original " jurassic park " survivor alan grant ( neill ) is tricked by paul and amanda kirby ( macy and leoni ) into leading an expedition to an island overrun by dinosaur , to rescue their stranded son . grant's team is picked off one by one as they encounter dinosaurs both new and familiar , and grant grows to realise that some breeds are more intelligent than he previously thought . review : there is one reason why " jurassic park iii " is better than its immediate predecessor , " the lost world : jurassic park " . the latter wasted 129 minutes of my life ; the former , only 94 . the first " park " was a marvellous film , full of awe-inspiring sights , interesting characters , and genuine thrills . its two successors have been pale imitations , amounting to hundred-million-dollar b-grade horror movies . at least this third entry realises it ; whereas " the lost world " tried to justify its existence with a ludicrous and overextended plot , " jurassic park iii " simply sticks its characters on an island with a bunch of dinosaurs and lets the mayhem begin . there is a desperate sense of deja vu presiding over this movie ; the computer-animated dinos are no longer novel or exciting , and even the first-time presence of aerial lizards scarcely improves the situation . remember that wondrous first trolley ride through the park in the original movie ? nothing in this rehash even comes close . add in execrable dialogue from screenwriters buchman , payne and taylor , and phoned-in performances by the normally capable macy and leoni , and it is difficult to recommend the film to anyone but dino enthusiasts . at least neill makes some effort to retain the dignity of his character , and there is much less gore than in " the lost world " , making this installment more suitable for children . copyright © 2001 shannon patrick sullivan . archived at the popcorn gallery , http : //www . physics . mun . ca/~sps/movies . html | shannon patrick sullivan | shannon@mun . ca | + --------------------------------- + --------------------------------- + / doctor who : a brief history of time ( travel ) go . to/drwho-history \ \__ we are all in the gutter but some of us are looking at the stars __/ 
united states , 1998 u . s . release date : 5/8/98 ( wide ) running length : 1 : 20 mpaa classification : r ( profanity , mature themes , sexual situations ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 cast : jada pinkett smith , tommy davidson , dave chappelle , paula jai parker , ll cool j , darrel heath , michael ralph , duane martin director : daisy v . s . mayer producers : beth hubbard , michael hubbard screenplay : david c . johnson cinematography : jean lepine music : michel colombier u . s . distributor : new line cinema working in the motion picture industry must be a constant source of frustration for a front-line african american actress like jada pinkett smith . despite being one of the freshest talents available , pinkett smith has often been relegated to playing thankless supporting parts ( a low down dirty shame , the nutty professor ) . the problem is , of course , that there aren't many good roles available for black women . take away the likes of waiting to exhale , set it off , soul food , and eve's bayou , and all that's left is a chance to be someone's girlfriend , a local whore , or a murder victim . as a result , for pinkett smith's first opportunity atop the marquee , she is stuck in a stupid , formulaic romantic comedy with the unpromising title of woo . actually , woo , the latest directorial effort from daisy v . s . mayer ( party girl ) , could have been worse than it is . the film offers a few funny ( albeit juvenile ) moments and the on-screen relationship between pinkett smith's woo and tommy davidson's tim is appealing on those rare occasions when the two aren't forced to play it dumb for the sake of an endless barrage of cheap gags . unfortunately , huge portions of the movie are insulting to the intelligence of anyone with a triple-digit i . q . the situations are painfully contrived , the main characters are lifted right out of sit-coms , and the supporting players are so incredibly stupid that i wondered whether they all participated in some kind of " free lobotomy " lab experiment . woo is a spontaneous , energetic young woman who has been looking for love in all the wrong places . her latest relationship , with a testosterone-overdosed drug-dealer , came to an abrupt end when she refused to wear a beeper . now , her transvestite/medium friend celestrial ( girlina ) predicts that she's about to meet mr . right , and that he'll be a virgo . later that day , woo is given an opportunity to go out on a blind date with tim , a shy man with a penchant for neatness and order , who just happens to be a virgo . it's not love at first sight , however . things get off to a rocky start when tim makes an awkward pass , and they get even worse when the pair arrives at a swanky restaurant to enjoy a " quiet " dinner . in the one-hundred year history of motion pictures , there have been a ton of bad " white " movies about mismatched lovers , so i suppose it's only fair that we get a " black " effort of the same low caliber . as in all romantic comedies , we know from the beginning that woo and tim are going to end up together . the question is , are their courtship rituals entertaining ? in a good entry to the genre , the audience becomes caught up in the love story , no matter how familiar it is . in woo , the constant reliance upon unfunny , moronic humor sinks the project . for those who enjoy spotting continuity gaffes , there's a huge one in woo involving a corvette with a broken window that miraculously repairs itself ( added to that is the mystery of how the car looses its top ) . sadly , that's one of the film's most enjoyable sequences , and the entertainment value is entirely unintentional . despite exuding charm from every pore , there's little that pinkett smith and davidson can do to save their characters or david c . johnson's script . since it misses the mark by so much , a better name for woo might have been whoops . 
directed by john ottman . screenplay by paul harris boardman & scott derrickson , based on characters created by silvio horta . starring jennifer morrison , matthew davis , loretta devine . running time : 100 minutes . rated r by the mfcb . reviewed on october 2nd , 2000 . two years ago , the original " urban legend " was a surprise , proving to be the most worthy of the litany of " scream " rip-offs . although by no means classic cinema , it was entertaining and boasted an entertaining premise , taking typical slasher-film shenanigans and dressing them up in the context of popular urban legends . aided by good performances and energetic direction , " urban legend " turned out to be ideal popcorn fare . now comes the sequel of sorts , " urban legends : final cut " . instead of being a continuation of the first movie , this one is intended to be more of a thematic successor . its events are inspired by the original , and only two characters carry over . most notable is security guard reese ( loretta devine ) , now working at a university whose film students compete for the prestigious and lucrative hitchcock prize . one night , reese encounters amy mayfield ( jennifer morrison ) , who is casting about for a topic for her thesis film . reese tells her about the events she endured at pendleton in the original picture ( " but that's just an urban legend , " amy protests in one of the more clever lines of dialogue ) and this inspires amy to make her own movie about a campus killer who bases his murders on urban myths . but as production gets under way , somebody seizes on the pendleton " legend " in a far more literal manner , and begins killing film students in the same style . or , at least , that's what's supposed to be happening . but " urban legends " is so ineptly written by paul harris boardman and scott derrickson that the central motif is virtually forgotten about , or treated more as a crutch . although boardman and derrickson go through the motions of dressing their murders up in " urban legend " style , this is largely just used as an irrelevant backdrop while the killings are carried out in typical slasher style . there is a startling dearth of imagination here : even the deaths , usually the high points of any movie of this genre , lack invention . there is a similar lethargy to many of the other plot points . characters are introduced who are so obviously intended to be potential suspects -- a rival movie director , a mysterious twin brother , an eccentric movie groupie -- that they deserve little flags . having introduced such characters , boardman and derrickson make little effort to heighten the suspense by developing them further ; they are pretty much just thrown out there , and it is expected that the viewer will generate his own mystery trying to figure out which one actually did it . " urban legends " , though , is so thoroughly unengaging that there is no cause to contemplate such things ; there are far greater mysteries , like why a studio would greenlight such a paltry , third-rate script . " urban legends " has the feel almost of a serialised drama , with each incident happening seemingly in isolation . characters appear just so that they can serve as the next victim . people die and are not mentioned again for huge stretches of time . the movie evokes the sense of filmmakers going through the motions -- murders and other scary incidents occur not because the plot demands it , but just to fill time . this is moviemaking at its most mechanical . there is little in the way of characterisation to speak of , and few of the castmembers engender any interest or sympathy . the revelation that one character has a twin , for example , is completely defused by the fact that we knew nothing about the character in the first place . morrison proves a poor successor to " urban legend's " spunky alicia witt -- not because she doesn't try , but simply because she is given no material to work with . amy is a dull , monotonous character , and the filmmakers seem to assume that we will empathise with her simply because she's the main character , not because they have established her as somebody worthy of our interest . amongst the other characters , devine is downright embarrassing as reese , having apparently graduated from the " police academy " stable . matthew davis , who plays twins travis and trevor , is aimless in either role . perhaps the biggest name actor , joseph lawrence ( best known as the guy who says 'woah ! ' on " blossom " ) , is confined to a forgettable one-note part . john ottman's direction is unremarkable and drops the ball more than once during action scenes , where the sequence of events is frequently confusing and difficult to discern . certainly , ottman does little to cultivate an atmosphere of suspense or terror . but then , there is precious little mystery anywhere in " urban legends " -- a particularly galling fact given that the film invokes such names as hitchcock and welles . it all comes to a head with the revelation of the killer , which is done so off-handedly and absurdly that i kept waiting for the other shoe to drop ( it never does ) . indeed , it was moments like this that made me wonder if " urban legends " was perhaps intended to be more a satire of slasher films than just a standard entry into the genre . but if that is the case , then it is a most incompetent effort , totally failing to illuminate any truths about slasher movies ( except , perhaps , that they're all but exhausted ) and instead wallowing in their most dubious cliches . " urban legends : final cut " is , quite simply , badly made . the direction is hamfisted . the acting is without merit . the writing is on about the same level as that roomful of typewriter-endowed chimpanzees . it is amusing that the movie is set at a film school , because you have to wonder how much time its creators actually spent at one . the only positive thing that can be said about " urban legends " is that , in the end , it could have been a lot worse . it is never actively terrible ; it is just incredibly lazy , inducing more a sense of ennui than of critical revulsion . nonetheless , it is yet another example of how the teen slasher genre is in desperate need of either fresh ideas or a long rest . hopefully , this is indeed the 'final cut' for the " urban legend " mini-franchise . copyright © 2000 shannon patrick sullivan . archived at the popcorn gallery , http : //www . physics . mun . ca/~sps/movies/urbanlegends . html _______________________________________________________________________ / shannon patrick sullivan | " we are all in the gutter , but some of us \ | shannon@mun . ca | are looking at the stars . " - oscar wilde | \___________________________|__________________________________________/ | popcorn gallery movie reviews www . physics . mun . ca/~sps/movies . html | | doctor who : a brief history of time ( travel ) /drwho . html | 
tim burton has now completed his evolution from the brilliant director of macabre stories about outcast individuals yearning for acceptance , and into a studio monkey whose name is used as part of multi-tiered marketing materials for crap movies . and here he hits rock bottom , with planet of the apes . i didn't expect much from this latest " interpretation " of pierre boulle's classic novel planet of the apes . i mean , how could you top the force and impact of the original film , intelligently co-scripted by rod serling ( of twilight zone fame ) combined with the overbearing chuck heston growling and yelling at those " damn dirty apes , " in one of his best roles of his career ? sadly , i sat down to watch burton's version of planet of the apes and within the first 20 minutes , i was checking my watch and my girlfriend ( a big fan of the original film ) started to nod off . this time around , the story plays out like a cross between enemy mine , braveheart , and project x . marky mark wahlberg , who was enjoyable in boogie nights and the corrupter , plays leo davidson , a hot shot u . s . air force pilot . leo and his crew are in search of some mysterious magnetic storms ( no real explanation given in the film ) and leo sends one of his genetically altered " smart " chimps into the storms to collect data . leo and his crew lose communication with the chimp , leo hops in another ship to find the monkey , and then he's thrown through some type of time-space wormhole which crashes lands on the twentieth century fox studio backlot , all mocked up to look like the amazon jungle . leo ends up getting captured by a group of talking apes and is sold to a slave trader named limbo ( paul giamatti ) who in turn sells leo to a chimpanzee named ari ( helena bonham carter ) . the kind ari then helps leo and his fellow humans escape to the mountains to find leo's ship . along the way , monkeys played by tim roth ( overacting his role of a vicious general named thade ) and michael clarke duncan ( who further enhances his career by playing another heavy in a bad action movie ) strive out to hunt down leo and his band of human savages , just like battlefield earth ! in the end , it all culminates into another braveheart rip-off human versus ape battle scene . while rick baker's makeup work is amazing , the script is a pathetic hodgepodge ( courtesy of three writers ) , the acting is horrible , and the " surprise " ending feels like a swing from a ball-peen hammer into the temple . wahlberg does not have the physical or mental presence of a chuck heston to carry the film or any of its action sequences . this remake , or re-interpretation , as tim burton has proclaimed it , is an insult to the intelligence and wit of the original film . the ethical arguments about the equality of species , fascism , and military buildup have been replaced by tremendous amounts of ridiculous dialogue , an unimaginative narrative structure , and a romance between a monkey and a human . even chuck heston's anti-gun tirade ( in the de rigeur cameo ) seems shallow and jokey . but the main element missing from this tim burton film is tim burton . even though his name is plastered across every billboard in america , john badham could have directed this film . even joel schumacher could have directed this film . he probably should have . burton's predominant themes of rejection , isolation , and the search for one's place in the universe , as seen in ed wood , edward scissorshands , and pee-wee's big adventure , are completely absent in this planet . i suppose that's what happen when a great director gets sucked through a wormhole . 
mr . wrong . directed by nick castle . produced by marty katz . written by chris matheson , kerry ehrin , craig munson . photography , john schwartzman . production design , doug kraner . editing , patrick kennedy , music , craig safan . cast : ellen degeneres ( martha alston ) , bill pullman ( whitman crawford ) , joan cusack ( inge ) , dean stockwell ( jack tramonte ) , joan plowright ( mrs . crawford ) , john livingston ( walter ) , robert goulet ( dick braxton ) , ellen cleghorne ( jane ) , hope davis ( annie ) , brad henke ( bob ) , christine cattell ( nancy culpepper ) , peter white ( mr . alston ) , polly holliday ( mrs . alston ) , maddie corman ( missy ) , et al . a touchstone picture . 92 mins . pg-13 . today you're the toast of the town , tomorrow you're just toast . that's what happens to popular tv and stand-up comedian ellen degeneres in her first feature role . actually , past a dumb giveaway opening scene that leads to a long flashback , the start of " mr . wrong " is at least as funny as the thought of certain people as us president . martha ( degeneres ) , 31 , a talent coordinator for a local tv talk show , is at her younger sister's wedding . even when unspoken , the pressure by family and friends to have martha find her own mr . right permeates the air . martha however , professionally content and personally well-balanced , is acceptably happy as a single . she bides her time . there are good nuances in her portrait . cut to some amusing office scenes , notably of martha's much younger assistant walter who keeps courting her . cut to lonely martha's date with a yoyo who brags : " i can sell ovens to eskimos . " nonplussed martha : " i think the usual expression is freezers . " he , puzzled : " what would they need them for ? " and on her doorstep he asks : " give me a french kiss . " ugh . the future suddenly materializes in the person of whitman crawford ( pullman ) , met cute ( but not too ) around a jukebox playing the hank williams oldie " i'm so lonesome i could cry " ( performed by chris isaak ) . before you can say valentine's day , they're having a hot affair . the morning after , at the office , her best friend breathlessly inquires " did you ? did he ? did he ? " --1990s coded language for safe sex . martha is in seventh heaven with whitman's devotion , classiness and gentleness . he writes poetry ( he recites some gibberish to her in a funny scene ) and , as we learn later , gets from a trust $50 , 000 a month . when he takes her to see his mother ( joan plowright ) weirdness begins to set in . when martha innocently tells him " i want you to be yourself , " this turns out to be as drastic as pressing the red missile-launching button . whitman drops what we realize was a fake persona and does become himself . no , he's no serial killer but a total loony who does odd and tasteless things , and desperately wants to marry martha . in turn , she now desperately wants out . so far , so good . but the movie takes a sudden dive past the first 35-40 minutes and keeps shedding ratings stars . the balance is devoted to whitman's relentless pursuit and stalking of martha . unreasonably jealous , whitman's previous girlfriend inge ( cusack ) aided by a fat , hopeless suitor , menaces martha whom whitman keeps showering with gifts and unwelcome attentions . " mr . wrong " becomes tedious though not awful ( yet ) , given its small ambitions . but after a second plunge it smashes itself flat on the pavement . meandering , incoherence , confusion and stupidity turn fun into fiasco . much is wrong with " mr . wrong . " the direction , hesitant and uneven from the start , worsens exponentially . the concocted-by-committee scenario gets even more painful . one of the scripters had done the " bill & ted " flicks . the other two are first-timers . past the initial impetus , the trio grope in the dark , have no idea where to go next , fail to find a single acceptable development , gag or line . the plot includes some name performers given either microscopic walk-on parts ( goulet ) or a small , wasted ones ( plowright , stockwell , tv " alice " 's holliday ) . criminally idiotic is the role of the usually incomparable joan cusack , slated in my book for the thelma ritter award . criminally cruel is the way degeneres is photographed . the very fact that she is no movie beauty should have been worked on to show us a real person , a change from bimboids . it is pure technical sloppiness . look at robert redford in newscasts , then at his younger , well made-up and shot , transformed face in the previews of his new film . coming close to being right in " mr . wrong " are a ) the natural rapport between degeneres and best friend ellen cleghorne , a black actress , and b ) the perfect normalcy of older women having affairs with younger men . alas , both notions are way underdeveloped , and the second is botched up by the asinine ending . perhaps theaters ought to screen only the first section , for two thirds off tickets . 
watchers reborn ( 1998 ) a film review by justin felix . copyright 1999 justin felix . all of my film reviews are archived at http : //us . imdb . com/m/reviews_by ? justin + felix this review also appears in the shrubbery at http : //www . theshrubbery . prohosting . com/0299/movie3 . html screenplay by sean dash . based upon the novel watchers by dean koontz . directed by john carl buechler . starring mark hamill , lou rawls , kane hodder , lisa wilcox . rated r ( contains violence and profanity ) 83 mins . synopsis : a humorless police officer's life changes when he befriends a super-smart , super-adorable golden retriever named einstein and a cute , young blond scientist . unfortunately , einstein shares a psychic link with a bigfoot-sized ape-creature trained by the blond scientist to be an unstoppable killing machine , and this rogaine-nightmare is loose and after the dog and the girl . meanwhile , a group of white , chain-smoking , gun-toting nsa agents in sunglasses and business suits tries to kill all the other characters in the movie . comments : watchers reborn , a cheaply made direct-to-video turkey , is the fourth sequel to the first film version of dean koontz's bestselling novel watchers . technically , this should have been called watchers v , but it seems that this cycle of horror movies , much like many other sequel-crazy film series , has decided to drop the numbers from the titles . ( even the star trek movies dropped the numbers from their titles after star trek vi . ) the makers of watchers reborn probably want to fool unsuspecting video rental customers into thinking this might be a good movie instead of a crappy fifth installment of a film series which should have died a long time ago . this really isn't a good movie . have you ever rented a movie and recieved a sinking feeling about it when you watched the previews preceding the feature presentation ? well , any hope a viewer may have had , perhaps because he is a fan of novelist dean koontz or actor mark hamill , will be dashed by the time he's seen the trailers tagged on before the beginning of watchers reborn . they're awful . these commercials cover films like a strange stripper movie called shadow dancer , some weird crap about a dead indian , teens , and wolves , and an " action " movie called detonator starring scott baio . scott baio ! what idiot dreamed this movie up ? after surviving these abysmal trailers , the person finally gets to watch the movie he rented : watchers reborn . " maybe it won't be * that * bad " he may say to himself . " perhaps , just perhaps , the bottom-of-the-barrel film fluff advertised before it is greatly misleading . watchers reborn , after all , is based on that cool book dean koontz wrote a decade ago . it stars mark hamill -- luke skywalker himself from that terrific star wars trilogy . lou rawls is even in the mix ! " unfortunately , the force is certainly no longer with mark hamill ( he looks very sick here ) , and this movie shares only basic plot elements with watchers , the book . the latter is really too bad . koontz is a hack writer producing way too many thrillers for his own good , but he is still my favorite hack writer . koontz has a writing style which is succinct and suspenseful . people who read many of his books , however , often complain of repetitive plot devices . it's definately not a koontz book if there isn't ( 1 ) a psychic , ( 2 ) a super-intelligent dog , or ( 3 ) a psychotic killer who likes ripping out people's eyeballs . watchers has all three devices , which may explain why it's arguably the most popular of koontz's books . the idea behind koontz's novel , though highly implausible , is very interesting . basically , a biological war machine is created : a smart dog can be released in battle , track down its target , and then relay the target's position , psychically , to a large creature designed to kill in hand-to-hand combat . silly but kind of neat too . i'm sorry . i don't mean to ramble on about matters not directly linked to watchers reborn , the movie . i suppose i just don't want to talk about the movie itself . this turkey is really cheesy . no one in this movie can act , including mark hamill , and it's difficult seeing the aged luke skywalker stumble around trying to be the hero . the cheese factor is only increased when he's involved in an implied sex scene with the blond biologist / geneticist / zoologist / whatever-the-f * * k-she's-supposed-to-be whom he befriends . mercifully , the filmmakers opted not to do nudity . to be honest , the only half-convincing actor in the film is the golden retriever who plays einstein . you know a movie is bad when a dog outacts all of its human counterparts . i find it difficult to relate how laughable the action sequences are in this movie . and the creature ! yes , the creature out after poor einstein is some guy in a furry suit and a mask which poorly imitates the werewolves in the howling . this creature is shot about 500 , 000 times , but it's okay . the creature has the ability to kill people by swinging his arms around and pushing . oh , he can also rip body parts off , allowing for many scenes of fake hands and arms being thrown around . cheesy gore . that's another main element of watchers reborn . it has many bloody scenes which are thoroughly unconvincing and only increase the film's campiness rather than its suspense . ultimately , i gave watchers reborn a star and a half because bad horror / sci-fi film buffs may get a few kicks out of the film's silliness ( though this film will tax even their patience -- it's an 83 minute film , but it feels like four hours ) . also , i hate to admit , i have survived far worse than this . anyone who has sat through the christopher lambert and natasha henstridge debacle known as adrenalin : fear the rush will know what i mean . finally , i couldn't help but think that watchers reborn would work well as " bot fodder " for the creative folks behind one of my all-time favorite shows , " mystery science theater 3000 . " this thought alone helped me survive watchers reborn with a smile on my face . rated r , watchers reborn contains dozens of blood-spattered bodies and unconvincing gore . it also has violence , obviously . i wouldn't recommend it for the little kids , but i'm sure even young teens would make it through this movie okay . instead of watching this film , however , i recommend reading koontz's book . trust me , it'll be time much , much better spent . 
first time writer/director neil mansfield contends that art can be found in the everyday lives of ordinary people . he tries to prove his theory with this video diary following a week in the lives of three friends who share a house in the inner sydney suburb of marrickville . kit ( nadine garner ) shares the house with her boyfriend jack ( marin mimica ) , a failed film maker , and her best friend e ( new comer bridie carter ) , a uni student who daily compiles her own personal magazine which she distributes to her small circle of friends . the house is situated under the airport flight path . it is this element that provides a thematic focus that runs throughout the otherwise fragmented and loosely structured film . this is an area that mansfield knows well , and the film is enthused with a passion for the back streets and the residents of this slice of suburbia . mansfield is inspired by the early films of godard and the french new wave , and he tries to duplicate some of that energy here . however , not a lot that is particularly interesting occurs , and this is ultimately a dull and meandering film . some people may find its easy going style charming and endearing , others will merely find it dull . mansfield has coined a new term to describe his low budget semi-autobiographical film - " zinema " - which suits its multi-media format . the film combines the cut and paste methodology of magazines with the flexibility of various different film stocks , and still photography , drawings and other objects that interest the characters . despite the obvious passion displayed by mansfield and his crew , the film itself is rather artlessly constructed . a couple of scenes use a disconcerting method of jump cut editing . every line of dialogue in one scene is obviously cut together from several takes , and this scene is symptomatic of the film's overall lack of rhythm and style . far from a breath of fresh air for contemporary australian cinema , this film comes across as little more than a below average , low budget , experimental effort from a film student . fresh air lacks the charm and winning humour of love and other catastrophes , another local low budget film which used a similar improvised approach , and seems rather stale by comparison . 
starring : chris o'donnell , rene zellwegar , artie lange , ed anser , hal holbrook , james cromwell , marley shelton , mariah carey . well there goes another one . sadly this like other movies this year wasn't good . this one being almost as bad as 'the omega code' but not quite . from the opening credits i had a good feeling this would be bad , and well i guess i was right . with bad excuses for acting , a horrible screenplay and straight-out bad direction 'the bachelor' is a terribly unfunny movie that doesn't work on any levels accept that fact that rene zellwegar who does give a good performance . the two cameos by brooke shields and mariah carey are also good with brooke being the best . the movie is troubled from the start because chris o'donnell is hugely miscast and gives one of the worst performances to date . here is the stupid plot : chris o'donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has just broken up with his girlfriend , he meets anne ( rene zellwegar ) they instantly hit it off and are together for three years . jimmie decides that he wants to bring their relationship a little bit up . he really doesn't realize that anne thinks he wants to marry her ( what he wants i never did catch ) . so he proposes in a really bad way , and she shoots him down and is very mad . he of course tries to apologize but nothing seems to help any . then his grandfather dies and he learns that he has left jimmie 100 million dollars . . . . as long as he marries before the next day at 6 : 05 pm . now jimmie must find anne and try to marry her to get the money and because he loves her , or get married to someone else to get the money itself , leading to an un-funny and predictable ending that leaves a bad taste in our mouths . ok so maybe this could be one of the dumbest , cliched , silliest romantic comedy to date that has no real big laughs . even the supporting roles of artie lange , hal holbrook and ed anser aren't even good . the plot was a good idea , but the script would have to have been written in less than five minutes and by a five year old . the choppy dialogue and bad directing don't help things any . even though chris o'donnell gave an ok performance in the two batman movies , he does not give even a remotely good or funny performance here and i wanted to boo and throw my pop at the screen to get rid of him . rene zelweggar is a different story and gave a charming , sweet and likable performance ( as usual ) and really was the only thing that saved this confused movie from being a total huge washout . her sister played by marley shelton is also good and the two have good chemistry onscreen . brooke shields showed up in a funny little performance as a big-headed mogul who after a while became routine and old . one really can't help but think that we have seen this stuff before . it's not like this is an original idea and in the end , everyone knows what is going to happen due do its cliches and typicalness . 'the bachelor' works on no good levels and in fact doesn't work at all . ed anser and hal holbrook were wasted in terrible roles and mariah carey can not act to save her soul , and this could be the only film of her movie career dispite her terrific music career . chris o'donnell is not as bad an actor as casper van dien but that is not saying a great deal . he seems held back and really doesn't get into his character much and after even the first 30 minutes gets annoying and old . artie lange just to me seems like he is trying to another chris farley and was completely unfunny and un-nerving . why the filmmakers would want to waste such a cast in such a bad movie , with such bad acting and dialogue is a question only they will know . maybe they thought it would become a hit or a critical success , and sometimes i don't agree with other critics on movies , even from the trailers for this film they made it look bad and showed all the mildly funny parts . its based on the 1925 silent film 'seven chances' which i am sure is very better than this mess . even though some may think of this as a good date movie , most who see this will want to pull out thier hair and scream for thier money back . besides being a terrible movie , 'the bachelor' is well a terrible movie . it has nothing worth recommending therefore i really can't recommend this movie . i did not have a good time and i laughed only three times . the running time of the movie is 106 minutes which is wayyyy over time and needs to be shortened at least thirty minutes . parts of it seems to go on forever and parts of seem to not last enough time . being one of the worst movies of the year , we can be sure that i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny romantic comedies , and if they do they i give up on filmmakers . reviewed by brandon herring  november 13 , 1999 . brandon herring http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/movie/3160/moviereviewheaven . html 
for more reviews and movie wallpapers , visit http : //www . joblo . com/plot : a separated , glamorous , hollywood couple must pretend to reunite for a press junket of the last movie that they ever shot together . kewl . . . now i only wish that i could pretend never to have seen this movie . . . critique : trite , unfunny , boring and a waste of everyone's talent . how a premise with such zest and bite can turn into a movie that doesn't feature any chemistry , any real laughs , any surprises or any spice is beyond me . how julia roberts is used solely as a " puppy dog " character , puttering around in the background while we endure the complete bitchiness of zeta-jones' character , who is not one bit funny or romantic ( two ideal ingredients in a " romantic comedy " ) , is also beyond me . and why they chose john cusack , a great , quirky actor in his own right , to play the most bland , uninteresting and unfetching character ( with zero chemistry with either of his leads ) is further more , beyond me . and to anybody who decided that this project was " funny " enough to greenlight featuring the talents mentioned above , along with billy crystal , christopher walker , seth green and stanley tucci . . . well , what can i say . . . i just don't have the words . so is this the worst movie that i've seen all year ? no . but it definitely sucks and it's basically because . . . well , it's just not funny . and for the record , allow me to state a few more problems with it . it starts off slow , it's got no energy , it doesn't engage you with any of its characters ( julia barely gets somewhat interesting in the film , everyone else . . . lame ! ) , it utilizes way too many flashbacks to move the story forward , it's utterly predictable , standard , routine , see-through and uninteresting as a plot and it just sits there on the screen , big and ugly , waiting . . . waiting for you to laugh or find something in it that is amusing . and then hank azaria shows up . . . aaaaaah , the film's savior ( mind you , some might be offended by his exaggeration of a stereotype , but that's another story altogether ) . but when an experienced " voice " actor upstages all of the main stars in a summer " blockbuster " romantic comedy with an over-the-top antonio banderas accent , damn dude . . . your film's in trouble ! ! rent this movie on video just to see what went wrong yourself . the references to ricky ricardo and senor wences ( huh ! ? ) , the idio-plot points like when one of the characters goes on the roof to stretch his arms out and relax , but everyone believes that he's going to kill himself ( hardy-har-har ) and the cheap way of getting the audience to leave the theater laughing by bringing back a ball-sniffing dog that has no place being in the location at the end of the movie , well . . . i could go on . but i won't because i do still respect all of the actors in this film and actually did laugh at azaria , green and tucci's antics from time to time ( ironic , eh . . . what about the leads , dammit ! ) and liked the premise behind the film ( before i saw the finished product , of course ) . a dud all the way around . btw , all the talk about this film was that julia roberts was to be in a fat suit for one scene ( her character is supposed to have lost 60 pounds ) , so when the scene finally came , i did get a little excited about what it might look like and then . . . well , it basically just looked like julia roberts in a fat suit ! ugh . i think i'm gonna start drinking again after this lame-ass movie . c'mon hollywood , enough with the crud ! where's joblo coming from ? beautiful ( 1/10 ) - my best friend's wedding ( 7/10 ) - notting hill ( 5/10 ) - pretty woman ( 7/10 ) -runaway bride ( 5/10 ) - someone like you ( 4/10 ) - wedding planner ( 3/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 ) 
united states , 1998 u . s . release date : 5/29/98 ( wide ) running length : 1 : 26 mpaa classification : pg-13 ( profanity , vulgarity , brief nudity ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 cast : chris farley , matthew perry , eugene levy , kevin dunn , david packer , lisa barbuscia director : christopher guest producer : denise di novi screenplay : mark nutter & tom wolfe & boyd hale cinematography : adam kimmel , kenneth macmillan music : jeffrey c . j . vanston u . s . distributor : warner brothers several days after having seen this movie , i'm still trying to determine what director christopher guest , a man whose sense of humor i usually appreciate , found funny in either the concept or the execution of almost heroes . this is a dreadful motion picture – a lowbrow example of period piece comedy with terrible production values and an exceptionally poor laughs-to-jokes ratio . there's a kind of desperation in the movie's approach to humor that reveals the film makers' uncertainty about how entertaining the material is ; the manic style betrays itself as a last-ditch attempt to hide the flaws of a failed script . the premise doesn't sound especially amusing to begin with – almost heroes tells the tale of two explorers , the effeminate leslie edwards ( matthew perry ) and the uncouth bartholomew hunt ( chris farley ) , who are racing lewis and clark on the trip to the american northwest . edwards and hunt are accompanied by the kinds of weirdoes we find in road movies ( albeit of the early-19th century variety ) , including a frenchman named guy fontenot who claims to speak hundreds of languages ( none of which prove to be useful ) , a pretty indian maiden who turns into the obligatory love interest , and a bizarre man who suffers a series of debilitating injuries . along the way , the intrepid explorers encounter bears , bald eagles , aging native american warriors , and a conquistador named hildago ( kevin dunn ) who raves about his beautiful hair . the explorers' trek takes them through forests , across the snow-capped rocky mountains , and over a waterfall . this setup leads to a lot of shouting , a great deal of lunacy , and very few laughs . farley engages in his usual shtick of falling down and bellowing , but , aside from an momentarily diverting confrontation with an eagle , his heart doesn't seem to be in it . matthew perry , one of the stars of tv's friends ( who had some modest success in the romantic comedy , fools rush in ) is badly miscast . as a foil for farley and an antidote to his runaway energy , perry lacks the necessary edge of the proverbial straight man . i'm not a big fan of david spade , and i didn't like tommy boy , but at least he and farley worked well together . as far as the supporting players go , none of them makes more than a fleeting impression . eugene levy is wasted , and kevin dunn is about as interesting here as he is in godzilla . frankly , it's a disappointment to see something this dumb and ugly come from christopher guest , the brilliant comic force behind such films as this is spinal tap , the big picture , and waiting for guffman . although guest gets the costumes right , this nearly-inconsequential success is no substitute for the weak script and unfunny execution . the special effects , such as they are , are execrable . for an example of some really poor blue screen work , look at the scenes where the characters are shooting the rapids ( they're obviously getting buckets of water thrown on them ) and where farley is being carried off by an eagle . even though farley didn't have the most stellar of acting careers , he doesn't deserve the kind of unfortunate epitaph offered by almost heroes . while some of the more outrageous attempts at humor may coax a few guffaws from 12-year old boys , the level of comedy in almost heroes falls far below the level of sophomoric . farley fans who see this film as a way to say goodbye should be commended for their loyalty , since it takes real stamina to stay seated for the full running length of this cinematic torture session . 
there are so many people that live their lives wanting to become a filmmaker or do something in the film related business . every year they enter our nation's film schools with the high hopes that they too may one day make a movie that will be loved and adored by millions , then make a billion dollars , earn themselves a lifelong career , and start dating a supermodel . but seriously , how often does this type of thing really happen ? 20 dates is supposed to be a movie about a guy that goes on twenty different dates in la and secretly films them to show what real life dating is like . however , i actually found the film to be much more of the man's quest to make his first ever hollywood movie . myles berkowitz is an aspiring filmmaker who's come up with a brilliant idea . he's going to film 20 dates with 20 different women to see what dating and love is really like , instead of what we are usually shown in the movies . his first problem is funding , on what are supposedly secretly taped conversations myles and elie samaha , who's forking over the $60 , 000 to make the picture will only do it if he can hire actresses to go out with him . myles sees this as trying to kill his artistic vision , but he's the producer so sooner or later he will have to agree . as the film ( and a restraining order from a woman who didn't want to be filmed ) go by elie wants more nudity and more sex in the film and refuses to fund it unless tia carrere is in the picture . this troubles myles because he's just met , elizabeth , he's crazy for her and she seems to be marraige material . so myles faces a choice , should he finish the dates and start his movie career , or should he stay with possibly the only woman that he will ever truly love ? yawn . . . for trying to be edgy and interesting , and being unlike regular love stories , this film certainly is what's it's trying not to be . none of the dates myles takes out are all that interesting and as for myles himself , he's so god dang self-involved that i hated him at about the 10 minute point . an interesting concept with a bad result , 20 dates gets  stars . the young-uns : strong language , brief images of strippers in strip clubs , and lots of talk about putting sex and nudity into the picture make up the most worrysome content . good age : 14 & up a review by frankie paiva the 12 year-old movie reviewer e-mail me at swpstke@aol . com visit my website at http : //expage . com/page/teenagemoviecritic 
no way out was billed as a suspense thriller along the lines of hitchcock . let's take a look at the dramatic elements : action ? yes , there's plenty of action : chase scenes in cars , trains , and on foot and one that is predominantly horizontal . acting ? ! ? ! forget it ! there are so * many * actors involved and so much action ( i guess simple movement qualifies ) that there isn't any time for acting . although there are a few exceptions : will patton plays the part of gene hackman's aide . his character appears to be the most rounded , or at least the most intense . his performance will get some hollywood heads turning . he may ( should ) get an oscar nomination . kevin costner plays the lead as a naval officer who performs a heroic deed and subsequently gets involved with the secretary of defense . the only segment of his acting that was valuable was when he found out about his girlfriend's death . costner's performance in the untouchables was far more dynamic . we will no doubt be seeing more of him . we hope he will be screening any future scripts more carefully . sean young delivers interesting insight to the term " washington socialite . " a very provocative role . unfortunately , susan appears to have majored in " vaginal gymnastics " at junior college . gene hackman has taken on a role that hardly suits his capabilities . his horror of killing susan was the only portion of his role that stands out . howard duff had a very insignificant role . his was almost as empty as gene hackman's except gene had 10 times as much camera time . the problem here is that writing has failed some very capable actors . action ( movement ) has taken over the movie . there was a lot of role-playing , but very little in character development . plot has suffered due to logistical error . here are some examples : a door-to-door search for the elusive bad guy in the largest building in the world . oh . . . that ought to take a few weeks . how about this ? the secretary's aide ( who is gay and is in love with the secretary ) hears the secretary ( right in front of him ) decide to betray the aide as the murderer of the secretary's girlfriend . what does the aide do ? he shoots himself ! it seems to me that if one is about to be betrayed by someone as omnipotent as the secretary of defense , has a gun in possession , and is within range that he would shoot the secretary . worst of all , why is it that a man who is paid cash for the use of a boat is found as a witness and yet they never question the secretary's limo driver ? the limo driver would have ended the movie before the first 60 boring minutes would have ended . i give this one 1 + 1/2 * 
